---
layout: post
title: “The Adventures of Jenny Skunk"
slug: jenny-skunk
date: 1918-05-01
---

	   I. Peter Rabbit Plans a Joke                           1
      II  Peter Makes a Flying Jump                           7
     III   What Happened at the Old Barrel                   12
      IV   Jenny Skunk is Very Mad Indeed                    17
       V  Reddy Fox Sneaks Away                              23
      VI  Peter Rabbit Doesn't Enjoy His Joke                28
     VII  Sammy Jay Does Some Guessing                       33
    VIII  Jenny Skunk Looks for Peter                        39
      IX  Jenny Visits Johnny Chuck's Old House              44
       X  Peter Rabbit is Most Uncomfortable                 50
      XI  Jenny Skunk Keeps His Word                         55
     XII  Jenny Skunk and Unc' Billy Possum Meet             61
    XIII   Jenny Skunk Explains                              66
     XIV   A Little Something About Eggs                     70
      XV  A Second Meeting                                   75
     XVI  A Matter of Politeness                             80
    XVII  Jenny Skunk Gets a Bump                            85
   XVIII  A Sad, Sad Quarrel                                 90
     XIX  Jenny Skunk is True to His Word                    94
      XX  Farmer Brown's Boy Arrives                         98
     XXI  The Nest-Egg Gives Unc' Billy Away                103
    XXII  Unc' Billy Possum Tries His Old Trick             108
   XXIII  Unc' Billy Gives Himself Away                     113

<section class="chapter-set">

<h2 id="ch1"><a href="#ch1"><span>I</span> Peter Rabbit Plans a Joke</a></h2>

  The Imp of Mischief, woe is me,
  Is always busy as a bee.

That is why so many people are forever getting into trouble. He won't
keep still. No, Sir, he won't keep still unless he is made to. Once let
him get started there is no knowing where he will stop. Peter Rabbit had
just seen Jenny Skunk disappear inside an old barrel, lying on its side
at the top of the hill, and at once the Imp of Mischief began to
whisper to Peter. Of course Peter shouldn't have listened. Certainly
not. But he did. You know Peter dearly loves a joke when it is on some
one else. He sat right where he was and watched to see if Jenny would
come out of the barrel. Jenny didn't come out, and after a little Peter
stole over to the barrel and peeped inside. There was Jenny Skunk curled
up for a nap.

Peter tiptoed away very softly. All the time the Imp of Mischief was
whispering to him that this was a splendid chance to play a joke on
Jenny. You know it is very easy to play a joke on any one who is asleep.
Peter doesn't often have a chance to play a joke on Jenny Skunk. It
isn't a very safe thing to do, not if Jenny is awake. No one knows that
better than Peter. He sat down some distance from the barrel but where
he could keep an eye on it. Then he went into a brown study, which is
one way of saying that he thought very hard. He wanted to play a joke on
Jenny, but like most jokers he didn't want the joke to come back on
himself. In fact, he felt that it would be a great deal better for him
if Jenny shouldn't know that he had anything to do with the joke.

As he sat there in a brown study, he happened to glance over on the
Green Meadows and there he saw something red. He looked very hard, and
in a minute he saw that it was Reddy Fox. Right away, Peter's nimble
wits began to plan how he could use Reddy Fox to play a joke on Jenny.
All in a flash an idea came to him, an idea that made him laugh right
out. You see, the Imp of Mischief was very, very busy whispering to
Peter.

"If Reddy were only up here, I believe I could do it, and it would be a
joke on Reddy as well as on Jenny," thought Peter, and laughed right out
again.

"What are you laughing at?" asked a voice. It was the voice of Sammy
Jay.

Right away a plan for getting Reddy up there flashed into Peter's head.
He would get Sammy angry, and that would make Sammy scream. Reddy would
be sure to come up there to see what Sammy Jay was making such a fuss
about. Sammy, you know, is very quick-tempered. No one knows this better
than Peter. So instead of replying politely to Sammy, as he should have
done, Peter spoke crossly:

"Fly away, Sammy, fly away! It is no business of yours what I am
laughing at," said he.

Right away Sammy's quick temper flared up. He began to call Peter names,
and Peter answered back. This angered Sammy still more, and as he always
screams when he is angry, he was soon making such a racket that Reddy
Fox down on the Green Meadows couldn't help but hear it. Peter saw him
lift his head to listen. In a few minutes he began to trot that way. He
was coming to find out what that fuss was about. Peter knew that Reddy
wouldn't come straight up there. That isn't Reddy's way. He would steal
around back of the old stone wall on the edge of the Old Orchard, which
was back of Peter, and would try to see what was going on without being
seen himself.

"As soon as he sees me he will think that at last he has a chance to
catch me," thought Peter. "I shall have to run my very fastest, but if
everything goes right, he will soon forget all about me. I do hope that
the noise Sammy Jay is making will not waken Jenny Skunk and bring him
out to see what is going on."

So with one eye on the barrel where Jenny Skunk was taking a nap, and
the other eye on the old stone wall behind which he expected Reddy Fox
to come stealing up, Peter waited and didn't mind in the least the names
that Sammy Jay was calling him.




II

PETER MAKES A FLYING JUMP


  To risk your life unless there's need
  Is downright foolishness indeed.

Never forget that. Never do such a crazy thing as Peter Rabbit was
doing. What was he doing? Why, he was running the risk of being caught
by Reddy Fox all for the sake of a joke. Did you ever hear of anything
more foolish? Yet Peter was no different from a lot of people who every
day risk their lives in the most careless and heedless ways just to save
a few minutes of time or for some other equally foolish reason. The fact
is, Peter didn't stop to think what dreadful thing might happen if his
plans didn't work out as he intended. He didn't once think of little
Mrs. Peter over in the dear Old Briar-patch and how she would feel if he
never came home again. That's the trouble with thoughtlessness; it never
remembers other people.

All the time that Reddy Fox was creeping along behind the old stone wall
on the edge of the Old Orchard, Peter knew just where he was, though
Reddy didn't know that. If he had known it, he would have suspected one
of Peter's tricks.

"He'll peep over that wall, and just as soon as he sees me, he will feel
sure that this time he will catch me," thought Peter. "He will steal
along to that place where the wall is lowest and will jump over it right
there. I must be ready to jump the very second he does."

It all happened just as Peter had expected. While seeming to be paying
no attention to anything but to Sammy Jay, he kept his eyes on that low
place in the old wall, and presently he saw Reddy's sharp nose, as Reddy
peeped over to make sure that he was still there. The instant that sharp
nose dropped out of sight, Peter made ready to run for his life. A
second later, Reddy leaped over the wall, and Peter was off as hard as
he could go, with Reddy almost at his heels. Sammy Jay, who had been so
busy calling Peter names that he hadn't seen Reddy at all, forgot all
about his quarrel with Peter.

"Go it, Peter! Go it!" he screamed excitedly. That was just like Sammy.

Peter did go it. He had to. He ran with all his might. Reddy grinned as
he saw Peter start towards the Green Meadows. It was a long way to the
dear Old Briar-patch, and Reddy didn't have any doubt at all that he
would catch Peter before he got there. He watched sharply for Peter to
dodge and try to get back to the old stone wall. He didn't mean to let
Peter do that. But Peter didn't even try. He ran straight for the edge
of the hill above the Green Meadows. Then, for the first time, Reddy
noticed an old barrel there lying on its side.

"I wonder if he thinks he can hide in that," thought Reddy, and grinned
again, for he remembered that he had passed that old barrel a few days
before, and that one end was open while the other end was closed. "If he
tries that, I will get him without the trouble of much of a chase,"
thought Reddy, and chuckled.

Lipperty-lipperty-lip ran Peter, lipperty-lipperty-lip, Reddy right at
his heels! To Sammy Jay it looked as if in a few more jumps Reddy
certainly would catch Peter. "Go it, Peter! Oh, go it! Go it!" screamed
Sammy, for in spite of his quarrels with Peter, he didn't want to see
him come to any real harm.

Just as he reached the old barrel, Reddy was so close to him that Peter
was almost sure that he could feel Reddy's breath. Then Peter made a
splendid flying jump right over the old barrel and kept on down the
hill, lipperty-lipperty-lip, as fast as ever he could, straight for an
old house of Johnny Chuck's of which he knew. When he reached it, he
turned to see what was happening behind him, for he knew by the
screaming of Sammy Jay and by other sounds that a great deal was
happening. In fact, he suspected that the joke which he had planned was
working out just as he had hoped it would.




III

WHAT HAPPENED AT THE OLD BARREL


Peter Rabbit's jump over the old barrel on the edge of the hill was
unexpected to Reddy Fox. In fact, Reddy was so close on Peter's heels
that he had no thought of anything but catching Peter. He was running so
fast that when Peter made his flying jump over the barrel, Reddy did not
have time to jump too, and he ran right smack bang against that old
barrel. Now you remember that that barrel was right on the edge of the
hill. When Reddy ran against it, he hit it so hard that he rolled it
over, and of course that started it down the hill. You know a barrel is
a very rolly sort of thing, and once it has started down a hill,
nothing can stop it.

It was just so this time. Reddy Fox had no more than picked himself up
when the barrel was half way down the hill and going faster and faster.
It bounced along over the ground, and every time it hit a little hummock
it seemed to jump right up in the air. And all the time it was making
the strangest noises. Reddy quite forgot the smarting sore places where
he had bumped into the barrel. He simply stood and stared at the
runaway.

"As I live," he exclaimed, "I believe there was some one in that old
barrel!" There was. You remember that Jenny Skunk had curled up in there
for a nap. Now Jenny was awake, very much awake. You see, for once in
his life he was moving fast, very much faster than ever he had moved
before since he was born. And it wasn't at all comfortable. No, Sir, it
wasn't at all a comfortable way in which to travel. He went over and
over so fast that it made him dizzy. First he was right side up and then
wrong side up, so fast that he couldn't tell which side up he was. And
every time that old barrel jumped when it went over a hummock, Jenny was
tossed up so that he hit whatever part of the barrel happened to be
above him. Of course, he couldn't get out, because he was rolled over
and over so fast that he didn't have a chance to try.

Now Reddy didn't know who was in the barrel. He just knew by the sounds
that some one was. So he started down the hill after the barrel to see
what would happen when it stopped. All the time Peter Rabbit was dancing
about in the greatest excitement, but taking the greatest care to keep
close to that old house of Johnny Chuck's so as to pop into it in case
of danger. He saw that Reddy Fox had quite forgotten all about him in
his curiosity as to who was in the barrel, and he chuckled as he thought
of what might happen when the barrel stopped rolling and Reddy found
out. Sammy Jay was flying overhead, screaming enough to split his
throat. Altogether, it was quite the most exciting thing Peter had ever
seen.

Now it just happened that Old Man Coyote had started to cross the Green
Meadows right at the foot of the hill just as the barrel started down.
Of course, he heard the noise and looked up to see what it meant. When
he saw that barrel rushing right down at him, it frightened him so that
he just gave one yelp and started for the Old Pasture like a gray
streak. He gave Peter a chance to see just how fast he can run, and
Peter made up his mind right then that he never would run a race with
Old Man Coyote.

Down at the bottom of the hill was a big stone, and when the barrel hit
this, the hoops broke, and the barrel fell all apart. Peter decided that
it was high time for him to get out of sight. So he dodged into the old
house of Johnny Chuck and lay low in the doorway, where he could watch.
He saw Jenny Skunk lay perfectly still, and a great fear crept into his
heart. Had Jenny been killed? He hadn't once thought of what might
happen to Jenny when he planned that joke. But presently Jenny began to
wave first one leg and then another, as if to make sure that he had some
legs left. Then slowly he rolled over and got on to his feet. Peter
breathed a sigh of relief.




IV

Jenny SKUNK IS VERY MAD INDEED


  When Jenny Skunk is angry
  Then every one watch out!
  It's better far at such a time
  To be nowhere about.

Jenny Skunk was angry this time and no mistake. He was just plain _mad_,
and when Jenny Skunk feels that way, no one wants to be very near him.
You know he is one of the very best-natured little fellows in the world
ordinarily. He minds his own business, and if no one interferes with
him, he interferes with no one. But once he is aroused and feels that he
hasn't been treated fairly, look out for him!

And this time Jenny was mad clear through, as he got to his feet and
shook himself to see that he was all there. I don't know that any one
could blame him. To be wakened from a comfortable nap by being rolled
over and over and shaken nearly to death as Jenny had been by that wild
ride down the hill in the old barrel was enough to make any one mad. So
he really is not to be blamed for feeling as he did.

Now Jenny can never be accused of being stupid. He knew that an old
barrel which has been lying in one place for a long time doesn't move of
its own accord. He knew that that barrel couldn't possibly have started
off down the hill unless some one had made it start, and he didn't have
a doubt in the world that whoever had done it, had known that he was
inside and had done it to make him uncomfortable. So just as soon as he
had made sure that he was really alive and quite whole, he looked about
to see who could have played such a trick on him.

The first person he saw was Reddy Fox. In fact, Reddy was right close at
hand. You see, he had raced down the hill after the barrel to see who
was in it when he heard the strange noises coming from it as it rolled
and bounded down. If Reddy had known that it was Jenny Skunk, he would
have been quite content to remain at the top of the hill. But he didn't
know, and if the truth be known, he had hopes that it might prove to be
some one who would furnish him with a good breakfast. So, quite out of
breath with running, Reddy arrived at the place where the old barrel had
broken to pieces just as Jenny got to his feet.

Now when Jenny Skunk is angry, he doesn't bite and he doesn't scratch.
You know Old Mother Nature has provided him with a little bag of perfume
which Jenny doesn't object to in the least, but which makes most people
want to hold their noses and run. He never uses it, excepting when he is
angry or in danger, but when he does use it, his enemies always turn
tail and run. That is why he is afraid of no one, and why every one
respects Jenny and his rights.

He used it now, and he didn't waste any time about it. He threw some of
that perfume right in the face of Reddy Fox before Reddy had a chance to
turn or to say a word.

"Take that!" snapped Jenny Skunk. "Perhaps it will teach you not to play
tricks on your honest neighbors!"

Poor Reddy! Some of that perfume got in his eyes and made them smart
dreadfully. In fact, for a little while he couldn't see at all. And
then the smell of it was so strong that it made him quite sick. He
rolled over and over on the ground, choking and gasping and rubbing his
eyes. Jenny Skunk just stood and looked on, and there wasn't a bit of
pity in his eyes.

"How do you like that?" said he. "You thought yourself very smart,
rolling me down hill in a barrel, didn't you? You might have broken my
neck."

"I didn't know you were in that barrel, and I didn't mean to roll it
down the hill anyway," whined Reddy, when he could get his voice.

"Huh!" snorted Jenny Skunk, who didn't believe a word of it.

"I didn't. Honestly I didn't," protested Reddy. "I ran against the
barrel by accident, chasing Peter Rabbit. I didn't have any idea that
any one was in it."

"Huh!" said Jenny Skunk again. "If you were chasing Peter Rabbit, where
is he now?"

Reddy had to confess he didn't know. He was nowhere in sight, and he
certainly hadn't had time to reach the dear Old Briar-patch. Jenny
looked this way and that way, but there was no sign of Peter Rabbit.

"Huh!" said he again, turning his back on Reddy Fox and walking away
with a great deal of dignity.




V

REDDY FOX SNEAKS AWAY


To sneak away is to steal away trying to keep out of sight of everybody,
and is usually done only by those who for some reason or other are
ashamed to be seen. Just as soon as Reddy Fox could see after Jenny
Skunk had thrown that terrible perfume in Reddy's face he started for
the Green Forest. He wanted to get away by himself. But he didn't trot
with his head up and his big plumey tail carried proudly as is usual
with him. No indeed. Instead he hung his head, and his handsome tail was
dropped between his legs; he was the very picture of shame. You see that
terrible perfume which Jenny Skunk had thrown at him clung to his red
coat and he knew that he couldn't get rid of it, not for a long time
anyway. And he knew, too, that wherever he went his neighbors would hold
their noses and make fun of him, and that no one would have anything to
do with him. So he sneaked away across the Green Meadows towards the
Green Forest and he felt too sick and mean and unhappy to even be angry
with Sammy Jay, who was making fun of him and saying that he had got no
more than he deserved.

Poor Reddy! He didn't know what to do or where to go. He couldn't go
home, for old Granny Fox would drive him out of the house. She had
warned him time and again never to provoke Jenny Skunk, and he knew that
she never would forgive him if he should bring that terrible perfume
near their home. He knew, too, that it would not be long before all the
little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows would know what
had happened to him. Sammy Jay would see to that. He knew just how they
would point at him and make fun of him. He would never hear the last of
it. He felt as if he never, never would be able to hold his head and his
tail up again. Every few minutes he stopped to roll over and over on the
ground trying to get rid of that dreadful perfume.

When he reached the Green Forest he hurried over to the Laughing Brook
to wash out his eyes. It was just his luck to have Billy Mink come along
while he was doing this. Billy didn't need to be told what had happened.
"Phew!" he exclaimed, holding on to his nose. Then he turned and hurried
beyond the reach of that perfume. There he stopped and made fun of
Reddy Fox and said all the provoking things he could think of. Reddy
took no notice at all. He felt too miserable to quarrel.

After he had washed his face he felt better. Water wouldn't take away
the awful smell, but it did take away the smart from his eyes. Then he
tried to plan what to do next.

"The only thing I can do is to get as far away from everybody as I can,"
thought he. "I guess I'll have to go up to the Old Pasture to live for a
while."

So he started for the Old Pasture, keeping as much out of sight as
possible. On the way he remembered that Old Man Coyote lived there. Of
course it would never do to go near Old Man Coyote's home for if he
smelled that awful perfume and discovered that he, Reddy, was the cause
of it he would certainly drive him out of the Old Pasture and then
where could he go? So Reddy went to the loneliest part of the Old
Pasture and crept into an old house that he and Granny had dug there
long ago when they had been forced to live in the Old Pasture in the
days when Farmer Brown's boy and Bowser the Hound had hunted them for
stealing chickens. There he stretched himself out and was perfectly
miserable.

"It wouldn't be so bad if I had really been to blame, but I wasn't. I
didn't know Jenny Skunk was in that barrel and I didn't mean to start it
rolling down the hill anyway," he muttered. "It was all an accident
and--" He stopped and into his yellow eyes crept a look of suspicion. "I
wonder," said he slowly, "if Peter Rabbit knew that Jenny Skunk was
there and planned to get me into all this trouble. I wonder."




VI

PETER RABBIT DOESN'T ENJOY HIS JOKE


All the time that Jenny Skunk was punishing Reddy Fox for rolling him
down hill in a barrel, and while Reddy was sneaking away to the Green
Forest to get out of sight, Peter Rabbit was lying low in the old house
of Johnny Chuck, right near the place where Jenny Skunk's wild ride had
come to an end. It had been a great relief to Peter when he had seen
Jenny Skunk get to his feet, and he knew that Jenny hadn't been hurt in
that wild ride. Lying flat in the doorway of Johnny Chuck's old house,
Peter could see all that went on without being seen himself, and he
could hear all that was said.

He chuckled as he saw Reddy Fox come up and his eyes were popping right
out with excitement as he waited for what would happen next. He felt
sure that Reddy Fox was in for something unpleasant, and he was glad. Of
course, that wasn't a bit nice of Peter. Right down in his heart Peter
knew it, but he had been chased so often by Reddy and given so many
dreadful frights, that he felt now that he was getting even. So he
chuckled as he waited for what was to happen. Suddenly that chuckle
broke right off in the middle, and Peter cried "Ouch!" He had felt a
pain as if a hot needle had been thrust into him. It made him almost
jump out of the doorway. But he remembered in time that it would never,
never do for him to show himself outside, for right away Reddy Fox and
Jenny Skunk would suspect that he had had something to do with that wild
ride of Jenny's in the barrel. So it would not do to show himself now.
No, indeed!

All he could do was to kick and squirm and twist his head around to see
what was happening. It didn't take long to find out. Even as he looked,
he felt another sharp pain which brought another "Ouch!" from him and
made him kick harder than ever. Two very angry little insects were just
getting ready to sting him again, and more were coming. They were Yellow
Jackets, which you know belong to the wasp family and carry very sharp
little lances in their tails. The fact is, this old house of Johnny
Chuck's had been deserted so long the Yellow Jackets had decided that as
no one else was using it, they would, and they had begun to build their
home just inside the hall.

Poor Peter! What could he do? He didn't dare go out, and he simply
couldn't stay where he was. Whatever he did must be done quickly, for it
looked to him as if a regular army of Yellow Jackets was coming, and
those little lances they carried were about the most painful things he
knew of. By this time he had lost all interest in what was going on
outside. There was quite enough going on inside; too much, in fact. He
remembered that Johnny Chuck digs his house deep down in the ground. He
looked down the long hall. It was dark down there. Perhaps if he went
down there, these angry little warriors wouldn't follow him. It was
worth trying, anyway.

So Peter scrambled to his feet and scurried down the long hall, and as
he ran, he cried "Ouch! Ouch! Oh! Ohoo!" Those sharp little lances were
very busy, and there was no way of fighting back. At the end of the long
hall was a snug little room, very dark but cool and comfortable. It was
just as he had hoped; the Yellow Jackets did not follow him down there.
They had driven him away from their home, which was right near the
entrance, and they were satisfied.

But what a fix he was in! What a dreadful fix! He ached and smarted all
over. My goodness, how he did smart! And to get out he would have to go
right past the Yellow Jacket home again.

"Oh, dear, I wish I had never thought of such a joke," moaned Peter,
trying in vain to find a comfortable position. "I guess I am served just
right."

I rather think he was, don't you?




VII

SAMMY JAY DOES SOME GUESSING


Sammy Jay is a queer fellow. Although he is a scamp and dearly loves to
make trouble for his neighbors, he is always ready to take their part
when others make trouble for them. Many are the times he has given them
warning of danger. This is one reason they are quite willing to overlook
his own shortcomings. So, though in many ways he is no better than Reddy
Fox, he dearly loves to upset Reddy's plans and is very apt to rejoice
when Reddy gets into trouble. Of course, being right there, he saw all
that happened when Reddy ran against the old barrel at the top of the
hill and sent it rolling. He had been quite as much surprised as Reddy
to find that there was some one inside, and he had followed Reddy to see
who it was. So, of course, he had seen what happened to Reddy.

Now, instead of being sorry for Reddy, he had openly rejoiced. It seems
to be just that way with a great many people. They like to see others
who are considered very smart get into trouble. So Sammy had laughed and
made fun of poor Reddy. In the first place it was very exciting, and
Sammy dearly loves excitement. And then it would make such a splendid
story to tell, and no one likes to carry tales more than does Sammy Jay.
He watched Reddy sneak away to the Green Forest, and Jenny Skunk slowly
walk away in a very dignified manner. Then Sammy flew back to the Old
Orchard to spread the news among the little people there. It wasn't
until he reached the Old Orchard that he remembered Peter Rabbit.
Instead of flying about telling every one what had happened to Jenny
Skunk and Reddy Fox, he found a comfortable perch in an old apple-tree
and was strangely silent. The fact is, Sammy Jay was doing some hard
thinking. He had suddenly begun to wonder. It had popped into that
shrewd little head of his that it was very strange how suddenly Peter
Rabbit had disappeared.

"Of course," thought Sammy, "Jenny Skunk is sure that Reddy rolled that
barrel down hill purposely, and I don't wonder that he does think so.
But I saw it all, and I know that it was all an accident so far as Reddy
was concerned. I didn't know that Jenny was in that barrel, and Reddy
couldn't have known it, because he didn't come up here until after I
did. But Peter Rabbit may have known. Why did Peter run so that he would
have to jump over that barrel when he could have run right past it?

"Of course, he may have thought that if he could make Reddy run right
slam bang against that barrel it would stop Reddy long enough to give
him a chance to get away. That would have been pretty smart of Peter and
quite like him. But somehow I have a feeling that he knew all the time
that Jenny Skunk was taking a nap inside and that something was bound to
happen if he was disturbed. The more I think of it, the more I believe
that Peter did know and that he planned the whole thing. If he did, it
was one of the smartest tricks I ever heard of. I didn't think Peter had
it in him. It was rather hard on Jenny Skunk, but it got rid of Reddy
Fox for a while. He won't dare show his face around here for a long
time. That means that Peter will have one less worry on his mind. Hello!
Here comes Jenny Skunk. I'll ask him a few questions."

Jenny came ambling along in his usual lazy manner. He had quite
recovered his good nature. He felt that he was more than even with Reddy
Fox, and as he was none the worse for his wild ride in the barrel, he
had quite forgotten that he had lost his temper.

"Hello, Jenny. Have you seen Peter Rabbit this morning?" cried Sammy
Jay.

Jenny looked up and grinned. "Yes," said he. "I saw him up here early
this morning. Why?"

"Did he see you go into that old barrel?" persisted Sammy.

"I don't know," confessed Jenny. "He may have. What have you got on
your mind, Sammy Jay?"

"Nothing much, only Reddy Fox was chasing him when he ran against that
barrel and sent you rolling down the hill," replied Sammy.

Jenny pricked up his ears. "Then Reddy didn't do it purposely!" he
exclaimed.

"No," replied Sammy. "He didn't do it purposely. I am quite sure that he
didn't know you were in it. But how about Peter Rabbit? I am wondering.
And I'm doing a little guessing, too."




VIII

Jenny SKUNK LOOKS FOR PETER


Jenny Skunk looked very hard at Sammy Jay. Sammy Jay looked very hard at
Jenny Skunk. Then Sammy slowly shut one eye and as slowly opened it
again. It was a wink.

"You mean," said Jenny Skunk, "that you guess that Peter Rabbit knew
that I was in that barrel, and that he jumped over it so as to make
Reddy Fox run against it. Is that it?"

Sammy Jay said nothing, but winked again. Jenny grinned. Then he looked
thoughtful. "I wonder," said he slowly, "if Peter did it so as to gain
time to get away from Reddy Fox."

"I wonder," said Sammy Jay.

"And I wonder if he did it just to get Reddy into trouble," continued
Jenny.

"I wonder," repeated Sammy Jay.

"And I wonder if he did it for a joke, a double joke on Reddy and
myself," Jenny went on, scratching his head thoughtfully.

"I wonder," said Sammy Jay once more, and burst out laughing.

Now Jenny Skunk has a very shrewd little head on his shoulders. "So that
is your guess, is it? Well, I wouldn't be a bit surprised if you are
right," said he, nodding his head. "I think I will go look for Peter. I
think he needs a lesson. Jokes that put other people in danger or make
them uncomfortable can have no excuse. My neck might have been broken in
that wild ride down the hill, and certainly I was made most
uncomfortable. I felt as if everything inside me was shaken out of place
and all mixed up. Even now my stomach feels a bit queer, as if it might
not be just where it ought to be. By the way, what became of Peter after
he jumped over the barrel?"

Sammy shook his head. "I don't know," he confessed. "You see, it was
very exciting when that barrel started rolling, and we knew by the
sounds that there was some one inside it. I guess Reddy Fox forgot all
about Peter. I know I did. And when the barrel broke to pieces against
that stone down there, and you and Reddy faced each other, it was still
more exciting. After it was over, I looked for Peter, but he was nowhere
in sight. He hadn't had time to reach the Old Briar-patch. I really
would like to know myself what became of him."

Jenny Skunk turned and looked down the hill. Then in his usual slow way
he started back towards the broken barrel.

"Where are you going?" asked Sammy.

"To look for Peter Rabbit," replied Jenny. "I want to ask him a few
questions."

Jenny Skunk ambled along down the hill. At first he was very angry as he
thought of what Peter had done, and he made up his mind that Peter
should be taught a lesson he would never forget. But as he ambled along,
the funny side of the whole affair struck him, for Jenny Skunk has a
great sense of humor, and before he reached the bottom of the hill his
anger had all gone and he was chuckling.

"I'm sorry if I did Reddy Fox an injustice," thought he, "but he makes
so much trouble for other people that I guess no one else will be sorry.
He isn't likely to bother any one for some time. Peter really ought to
be punished, but somehow I don't feel so much like punishing him as I
did. I'll just give him a little scare and let the scamp off with that.
Now, I wonder where he can be. I have an idea he isn't very far away.
Let me see. Seems to me I remember an old house of Johnny Chuck's not
very far from here. I'll have a look in that."

[Illustration]




IX

Jenny VISITS JOHNNY CHUCK'S OLD HOUSE


Jenny Skunk was smiling as he ambled towards the old house of Johnny
Chuck near the foot of the hill. There was no one near to see him, and
this made him smile still more. You see, the odor of that perfume which
he had thrown at Reddy Fox just a little while before was very, very
strong there, and Jenny knew that until that had disappeared no one
would come near the place because it was so unpleasant for every one. To
Jenny himself it wasn't unpleasant at all, and he couldn't understand
why other people disliked it so. He had puzzled over that a great deal.
He was glad that it was so, because on account of it every one treated
him with respect and took special pains not to quarrel with him.

"I guess it's a good thing that Old Mother Nature didn't make us all
alike," said he to himself. "I think there must be something the matter
with their noses, and I suppose they think there is something the matter
with mine. But there isn't. Not a thing. Hello! There is Johnny Chuck's
old house just ahead of me. Now we will see what we shall see."

He walked softly as he drew near to the old house. If Peter was way down
inside, it wouldn't matter how he approached. But if Peter should happen
to be only just inside the doorway, he might take it into his head to
run if he should hear footsteps, particularly if those footsteps were
not heavy enough to be those of Reddy or Granny Fox or Old Man Coyote.
Jenny didn't intend to give Peter a chance to do any such thing. If
Peter once got outside that old house, his long legs would soon put him
beyond Jenny's reach, and Jenny knew it. If he was to give Peter the
fright that he had made up his mind to give him, he would first have to
get him where he couldn't run away. So Jenny walked as softly as he knew
how and approached the old house in such a way as to keep out of sight
of Peter, should he happen to be lying so as to look out of the doorway.

At last he reached a position where with one jump he could land right on
the doorstep. He waited a few minutes and cocked his head on one side to
listen. There wasn't a sound to tell him whether Peter was there or not.
Then lightly he jumped over to the doorstep and looked in at the
doorway. There was no Peter to be seen.

"If he is here, he is way down inside," thought Jenny. "I wonder if he
really is here. I think I'll look about a bit before I go in."

Now the doorstep was of sand, as Johnny Chuck's doorsteps always are.
Almost at once Jenny chuckled. There were Peter's tracks, and they
pointed straight towards the inside of Johnny Chuck's old house. Jenny
looked carefully, but not a single track pointing the other way could he
find. Then he chuckled again. "The scamp is here all right," he
muttered. "He hid here and watched all that happened and then decided to
lie low and wait until he was sure that the way was clear and no one
would see him." In this Jenny was partly right and partly wrong, as you
and I know.

He stared down the long dark doorway a minute. Then he made up his mind.
"I'll go down and make Peter a call, and I won't bother to knock," he
chuckled, and poked his head inside the doorway. But that was as far as
Jenny Skunk went. Yes, Sir, that was just as far as Jenny Skunk went.
You see, no sooner did he start to enter that old house of Johnny
Chuck's than he was met by a lot of those Yellow Jackets, and they were
in a very bad temper.

Jenny Skunk knows all about Yellow Jackets and the sharp little lances
they carry in their tails; he has the greatest respect for them. He
backed out in a hurry and actually hurried away to a safe distance. Then
he sat down to think. After a little he began to chuckle again. "I know
what happened," said he, talking to himself. "Peter Rabbit popped into
that doorway. Those Yellow Jackets just naturally got after him. He
didn't dare come out for fear of Reddy Fox and me, and so he went on
down to Jenny Chuck's old bedroom, and he's down there now, wondering
how ever he is to get out without getting stung. I reckon I don't need
to scare Peter to pay him for that joke. I reckon he's been punished
already."

[Illustration]




X

PETER RABBIT IS MOST UNCOMFORTABLE


If ever any one was sorry for having played pranks on other folks, that
one was Peter Rabbit. I am afraid it wasn't quite the right kind of
sorrow. You see, he wasn't sorry because of what had happened to Jenny
Skunk and Reddy Fox, but because of what had happened to himself. There
he was, down in the bedroom of Johnny Chuck's old house, smarting and
aching all over from the sharp little lances of the Yellow Jackets who
had driven him down there before he had had a chance to see what
happened to Reddy Fox. That was bad enough, but what troubled Peter more
was the thought that he couldn't get out without once again facing
those hot-tempered Yellow Jackets. Peter wished with all his might that
he had known about their home in Johnny Chuck's old house before ever he
thought of hiding there.

But wishes of that kind are about the most useless things in the world.
They wouldn't help him now. He had so many aches and smarts that he
didn't see how he could stand a single one more, and yet he couldn't see
how he was going to get out without receiving several more. All at once
he had a comforting thought. He remembered that Johnny Chuck usually has
a back door. If that were the case here, he would be all right. He would
find out. Cautiously he poked his head out of the snug bedroom. There
was the long hall down which he had come. And there--yes, Sir, there was
another hall! It must be the way to the back door. Carefully Peter
crept up it.

"Funny," thought he, "that I don't see any light ahead of me."

And then he bumped his nose. Yes, Sir, Peter bumped his nose against the
end of that hall. You see, it was an old house, and like most old houses
it was rather a tumble-down affair. Anyway, the back door had been
blocked with a great stone, and the walls of the back hall had fallen
in. There was no way out there. Sadly Peter backed out to the little
bedroom. He would wait until night, and perhaps then the Yellow Jackets
would be asleep, and he could steal out the front way without getting
any more stings. Meanwhile he would try to get a nap and forget his
aches and pains.

Hardly had Peter curled up for that nap when he heard a voice. It
sounded as if it came from a long way off, but he knew just where it
came from. It came from the doorway of that old house. He knew, too,
whose voice it was. It was Jenny Skunk's voice.

"I know where you are, Peter Rabbit," said the voice. "And I know why
you are hiding down there. I know, too, how it happened that I was
rolled down hill in that barrel. I'm just giving you a little warning,
Peter. There are a lot of very angry Yellow Jackets up here, as you will
find out if you try to come out before dark. I'm going away now, but I'm
going to come back about dark to wait for you. I may want to play a
little joke on you to pay you back for the one you played on me."

That put an end to Peter's hope of a nap. He shivered as he thought of
what might happen to him if Jenny Skunk should catch him. What with his
aches and pains from the stings of the Yellow Jackets, and fear of
being caught by Jenny Skunk, it was quite impossible to sleep. He was
almost ready to face those Yellow Jackets rather than wait and meet
Jenny Skunk. Twice he started up the long hall, but turned back. He just
couldn't stand any more stings. He was miserable. Yes, Sir, he was
miserable and most uncomfortable in both body and mind.

"I wish I'd never thought of that joke," he half sobbed. "I thought it
was a great joke, but it wasn't. It was a horrid, mean joke. Why, oh,
why did I ever think of it?"

Meanwhile Jenny Skunk had gone off, chuckling.




XI

Jenny SKUNK KEEPS HIS WORD


  Keep your word, whate'er you do,
  And to your inmost self be true.

When Jenny Skunk shouted down the hall of Johnny Chuck's old house to
Peter Rabbit that he would come back at dark, he was half joking. He did
it to make Peter uneasy and to worry him. The truth is, Jenny was no
longer angry at all. He had quite recovered his good nature and was very
much inclined to laugh himself over Peter's trick. But he felt that it
wouldn't do to let Peter off without some kind of punishment, and so he
decided to frighten Peter a little. He knew that Peter wouldn't dare
come out during the daytime because of the Yellow Jackets whose home was
just inside the doorway of that old house; and he knew that Peter
wouldn't dare face him, for he would be afraid of being treated as Reddy
Fox had been. So that is why he told Peter that he was coming back at
dark. He felt that if Peter was kept a prisoner in there for a while,
all the time worrying about how he was to get out, he would be very slow
to try such a trick again.

As Jenny ambled away to look for some beetles, he chuckled and chuckled
and chuckled. "I guess that by this time Peter wishes he hadn't thought
of that joke on Reddy Fox and myself," said he. "Perhaps I'll go back
there tonight and perhaps I won't. He won't know whether I do or not,
and he won't dare come out."

Then he stopped and scratched his head thoughtfully. Then he sighed.
Then he scratched his head again and once more sighed. "I really don't
want to go back there tonight," he muttered, "but I guess I'll have to.
I said I would, and so I'll have to do it. I believe in keeping my word.
If I shouldn't and some day he should find it out, he wouldn't believe
me the next time I happened to say I would do a thing. Yes, Sir, I'll
have to go back. There is nothing like making people believe that when
you say a thing you mean it. There is nothing like keeping your word to
make people respect you."

Being naturally rather lazy, Jenny decided not to go any farther than
the edge of the Old Orchard, which was only a little way above Johnny
Chuck's old house, where Peter was a prisoner. There Jenny found a warm,
sunny spot and curled up for a nap. In fact, he spent all the day
there. When jolly, round, red Mr. Sun went to bed behind the Purple
Hills, and the Black Shadows came trooping across the Green Meadows,
Jenny got up, yawned, chuckled, and then slowly ambled down to Johnny
Chuck's old house. A look at the footprints in the sand on the doorstep
told him that Peter had not come out. Jenny sat down and waited until it
was quite dark. Then he poked his head in at the doorway. The Yellow
Jackets had gone to bed for the night.

"Come out, Peter. I'm waiting for you!" he called down the hall, and
made his voice sound as angry as he could. But inside he was chuckling.
Then Jenny Skunk calmly turned and went about his business. He had kept
his word.

As for Peter Rabbit, that had been one of the very worst days he could
recall. He had ached and smarted from the stings of the Yellow Jackets;
he had worried all day about what would happen to him if he did meet
Jenny Skunk, and he was hungry. He had had just a little bit of hope,
and this was that Jenny Skunk wouldn't come back when it grew dark. He
had crept part way up the hall at the first hint of night and stretched
himself out to wait until he could be sure that those dreadful Yellow
Jackets had gone to sleep. He had just about made up his mind that it
was safe for him to scamper out when Jenny Skunk's voice came down the
hall to him. Poor Peter! The sound of that voice almost broke his heart.

"He has come back. He's kept his word," he half sobbed as he once more
went back to Johnny Chuck's old bedroom.

There he stayed nearly all the rest of the night, though his stomach
was so empty it ached. Just before it was time for Mr. Sun to rise,
Peter ventured to dash out of Johnny Chuck's old house. He got past the
home of the Yellow Jackets safely, for they were not yet awake. With his
heart in his mouth, he sprang out of the doorway. Jenny Skunk wasn't
there. With a sigh of relief, Peter started for the dear, safe Old
Briar-patch, lipperty-lipperty-lip, as fast as he could go.

"I'll never, never play another joke," he said, over and over again as
he ran.




XII

Jenny SKUNK AND UNC' BILLY POSSUM MEET


Jenny Skunk ambled along down the Lone Little Path through the Green
Forest. He didn't hurry. Jenny never does hurry. Hurrying and worrying
are two things he leaves for his neighbors. Now and then Jenny stopped
to turn over a bit of bark or a stick, hoping to find some fat beetles.
But it was plain to see that he had something besides fat beetles on his
mind.

Up the Lone Little Path through the Green Forest shuffled Unc' Billy
Possum. He didn't hurry. It was too warm to hurry. Unlike Jenny Skunk,
he does hurry sometimes, does Unc' Billy, especially when he suspects
that Bowser the Hound is about. And sometimes Unc' Billy does worry. You
see, there are people who think that Unc' Billy would make a very good
dinner. Unc' Billy doesn't think he would. Anyway, he has no desire to
have the experiment tried. So occasionally, when he discovers one of
these people who think he would make a good dinner, he worries a little.

But just now Unc' Billy was neither hurrying nor worrying. There was no
need of doing either, and Unc' Billy never does anything that there is
no need of doing. So Unc' Billy shuffled up the Lone Little Path, and
Jenny Skunk ambled down the Lone Little Path, and right at a bend in the
Lone Little Path they met.

[Illustration]

Jenny Skunk grinned. "Hello, Unc' Billy!" said he. "Have you seen any
fat beetles this morning?"

Unc' Billy grinned. "Good mo'nin', Brer Skunk," he replied. "Ah can't
rightly say Ah have. Ah had it on mah mind to ask yo' the same thing."

Jenny sat down and looked at Unc' Billy with twinkling eyes. His grin
grew broader and became a chuckle. "Unc' Billy," said he, "have you ever
in your life combed your hair or brushed your coat?" You know Unc' Billy
usually looks as if every hair was trying to point in a different
direction from every other hair, while Jenny Skunk always appears as
neat as if he spent half his time brushing and smoothing his handsome
black and white coat.

Unc' Billy's eyes twinkled. "Ah reckons Ah did such a thing once or
twice when Ah was very small, Brer Skunk," said he, without a trace of
a smile. "But it seems to me a powerful waste of time. Ah have mo'
important things to worry about. By the way, Brer Skunk, did yo' ever
run away from anybody in all your life?"

Jenny looked surprised at the question. He scratched his head
thoughtfully. "Not that I remember of," said he after a little. "Most
folks run away from me," he added with a little throaty chuckle. "Those
who don't run away always are polite and step aside. It may be that when
I was a very little fellow and didn't know much about the Great World
and the people who live in it, I might have run away from some one, but
if I did, I can't remember it. Why do you ask, Unc' Billy?"

"Oh, no reason in particular, Brer Skunk. No reason in particular. Only
Ah wonder sometimes if yo' ever realize how lucky yo' are. If Ah never
had to worry about mah hungry neighbors, Ah reckons perhaps Ah might
brush mah coat oftener." Unc' Billy's eyes twinkled more than ever.

"Worry," replied Jenny Skunk sagely, "is the result of being unprepared.
Anybody who is prepared has no occasion to worry. Just think it over,
Unc' Billy."

It was Unc' Billy's turn to scratch his head thoughtfully. "Ah fear Ah
don't quite get your meaning, Brer Skunk," said he.

"Sit down, Unc' Billy, and I'll explain," replied Jenny.




XIII

Jenny SKUNK EXPLAINS


  You'll find this true where'er you go
  That those prepared few troubles know.

"To begin with, I am not such a very big fellow, am I?" said Jenny.

"Ah reckons Ah knows a right smart lot of folks bigger than yo', Brer
Skunk," replied Unc' Billy, with a grin. You know Jenny Skunk really is
a little fellow compared with some of his neighbors.

"And I haven't very long claws or very big teeth, have I?" continued
Jenny.

"Ah reckons mine are about as long and about as big," returned Unc'
Billy, looking more puzzled than ever.

"But you never see anybody bothering me, do you?" went on Jenny.

"No," replied Unc' Billy.

"And it's the same way with Prickly Porky the Porcupine. You never see
anybody bothering him or offering to do him any harm, do you?" persisted
Jenny.

"No," replied Unc' Billy once more.

"Why?" demanded Jenny.

Unc' Billy grinned broadly. "Ah reckons, Brer Skunk," said he, "that
there isn't anybody wants to go fo' to meddle with yo' and Brer Porky.
Ah reckons most folks knows what would happen if they did, and that yo'
and Brer Porky are folks it's a sight mo' comfortable to leave alone.
Leastways, Ah does. Ah ain't aiming fo' trouble with either of yo'. That
li'l bag of scent yo' carry is cert'nly most powerful, Brer Skunk, and
Ah isn't hankering to brush against those little spears Brer Porky is
so free with. Ah knows when Ah's well off, and Ah reckons most folks
feel the same way."

Jenny Skunk chuckled. "One more question, Unc' Billy," said he. "Did you
ever know me to pick a quarrel and use that bag of scent without being
attacked?"

Unc' Billy considered for a few minutes. "Ah can't say Ah ever did," he
replied.

"And you never knew Prickly Porky to go hunting trouble either,"
declared Jenny. "We don't either of us go hunting trouble, and trouble
never comes hunting us, and the reason is that we both are always
prepared for trouble and everybody knows it. Buster Bear could squash me
by just stepping on me, but he doesn't try it. You notice he always is
very polite when we meet. Prickly Porky and I are armed for _defence_,
but we never use our weapons for _offence_. Nobody bothers us, and we
bother nobody. That's the beauty of being prepared."

Unc' Billy thought it over for a few minutes. Then he sighed and sighed
again.

"Ah reckons yo' and Brer Porky are about the luckiest people Ah knows,"
said he. "Yes, Sah, Ah reckons yo' is just that. Ah don't fear anybody
mah own size, but Ah cert'nly does have some mighty scary times when Ah
meets some people Ah might mention. Ah wish Ol' Mother Nature had done
gone and given me something fo' to make people as scary of me as they
are of yo'. Ah cert'nly believes in preparedness after seein' yo', Brer
Skunk. Ah cert'nly does just that very thing. Have yo' found any nice
fresh aiggs lately?"




XIV

A LITTLE SOMETHING ABOUT EGGS


  "An egg," says Jenny Skunk, "is good;
    It's very good indeed to eat."
  "An egg," says Mrs. Grouse, "is dear;
    'Twill hatch into a baby sweet."

So in the matter of eggs, as in a great many other matters, it all
depends on the point of view. To Jenny Skunk and Unc' Billy Possum eggs
are looked on from the viewpoint of something to eat. Their stomachs
prompt them to think of eggs. Eggs are good to fill empty stomachs. The
mere thought of eggs will make Jenny and Unc' Billy smack their lips.
They say they "love" eggs, but they don't. They "like" them, which is
quite different.

But Mrs. Grouse and most of the other feathered people of the Green
Forest and the Green Meadows and the Old Orchard really do "love" eggs.
It is the heart instead of the stomach that responds to the thought of
eggs. To them eggs are almost as precious as babies, because they know
that some day, some day very soon, those eggs will become babies. There
are a few feathered folks, I am sorry to say, who "love" their own eggs,
but "like" the eggs of other people--like them just as Jenny Skunk and
Unc' Billy Possum do, to eat. Blacky the Crow is one and his cousin,
Sammy Jay, is another.

So in the springtime there is always a great deal of matching of wits
between the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows and
the Old Orchard. Those who have eggs try to keep them a secret or to
build the nests that hold them where none who like to eat them can get
them; and those who have an appetite for eggs try to find them.

When Unc' Billy Possum suddenly changed the subject by asking Jenny
Skunk if he had found any nice fresh eggs lately, he touched a subject
very close to Jenny's heart. I should have said, rather, his stomach. To
tell the truth, it was a longing for some eggs that had brought Jenny to
the Green Forest. He knew that somewhere there Mrs. Grouse must be
hiding a nestful of the very nicest of eggs, and it was to hunt for
these that he had come.

"No," replied Jenny, "I haven't had any luck at all this spring. I've
almost forgotten what an egg tastes like. Either I'm growing dull and
stupid, or some folks are smarter than they used to be. By the way, have
you seen Mrs. Grouse lately?" Jenny looked very innocent as he asked
this.

Unc' Billy chuckled until his sides shook. "Do yo' suppose Ah'd tell yo'
if Ah had?" he demanded. "Ah reckons Mrs. Grouse hasn't got any mo'
aiggs than Ah could comfortably take care of mahself, not to mention
Mrs. Possum." Here Unc' Billy looked back over his shoulder to make sure
that old Mrs. Possum wasn't within hearing, and Jenny Skunk chuckled.
"Seems to me, Brer Skunk, yo' might better do your aigg hunting on the
Green Meadows and leave the Green Forest to me," continued Unc' Billy.
"That would be no mo' than fair. Yo' know Ah never did hanker fo' to get
far away from trees, but yo' don't mind. Besides there are mo' aiggs for
yo' to find on the Green Meadows than there are fo' me to find in the
Green Forest. A right smart lot of birds make their nests on the ground
there. There is Brer Bob White and Brer Meadowlark and Brer Bobolink and
Brer Field Sparrow and Brer--"

"Never mind any more, Unc' Billy," interrupted Jenny Skunk. "I know all
about them. That is, I know all about them I want to know, except where
their eggs are. Didn't I just tell you I haven't had any luck at all?
That's why I'm over here."

"Well, yo' won't have any mo' luck here unless yo' are a right smart lot
sharper than your Unc' Billy, and when it comes to hunting aiggs, Ah
don't take mah hat off to anybody, not even to yo', Brer Skunk," replied
Unc' Billy.




XV

A SECOND MEETING


Jenny Skunk couldn't think of anything but eggs. The more he thought of
them, the more he wanted some. After parting from Unc' Billy Possum in
the Green Forest he went back to the Green Meadows and prowled about,
hunting for the nests of his feathered neighbors who build on the
ground, and having no more luck than he had had before.

Unc' Billy Possum was faring about the same way. He couldn't, for the
life of him, stop thinking about those eggs that belonged to Mrs.
Grouse. The more he tried to forget about them, the more he thought
about them.

"Ah feels it in mah bones that there isn't the least bit of use in
huntin' fo' them," said he to himself, as he watched Jenny Skunk amble
out of sight up the Lone Little Path. "No, Sah, there isn't the least
bit of use. Ah done look every place Ah can think of already. Still, Ah
haven't got anything else special on mah mind, and those aiggs cert'nly
would taste good. Ah reckons it must be Ah needs those aiggs, or Ah
wouldn't have them on mah mind so much. Ah finds it rather painful to
carry aiggs on mah mind all the time, but Ah would enjoy carrying them
in mah stomach. Ah cert'nly would." Unc' Billy grinned and started to
ramble about aimlessly, hoping that chance would lead him to the nest of
Mrs. Grouse.

Do what he would, Unc' Billy couldn't get the thought of eggs off his
mind, and the more he thought about them the more he wanted some. And
that led him to think of Farmer Brown's henhouse. He had long ago
resolved never again to go there, but the longing for a taste of eggs
was too much for his good resolutions, and as soon as jolly, round, red
Mr. Sun sank to rest behind the Purple Hills, and the Black Shadows came
creeping across the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest, Unc'
Billy slipped away, taking pains that old Mrs. Possum shouldn't suspect
where he was going.

Out from the Green Forest, keeping among the Black Shadows along by the
old stone wall on the edge of the Old Orchard, he stole, and so at last
he reached Farmer Brown's henhouse. He stopped to listen. There was no
sign of Bowser the Hound, and Unc' Billy sighed gently. It was a sigh of
relief. Then he crept around a corner of the henhouse towards a certain
hole under it he remembered well. Just as he reached it, he saw
something white. It moved. It was coming towards him from the other end
of the henhouse. Unc' Billy stopped right where he was. He was undecided
whether to run or stay. Then he heard a little grunt and decided to
stay. He even grinned. A few seconds later up came Jenny Skunk. It was a
white stripe on Jenny's coat that Unc' Billy had seen.

Jenny gave a little snort of surprise when he almost bumped into Unc'
Billy.

"What are you doing here?" he demanded.

"Just taking a li'l walk fo' the good of mah appetite," replied Unc'
Billy, grinning more broadly than ever. "What are yo' doing here, Brer
Skunk?"

"The same thing," replied Jenny. Then he chuckled. "This is an
unexpected meeting. I guess you must have had the same thing on your
mind all day that I have," he added.

"Ah reckon so," replied Unc' Billy, and both grinned.

[Illustration]




XVI

A MATTER OF POLITENESS

  It costs not much to be polite
  And, furthermore, it's always right.


Unc' Billy Possum and Jenny Skunk, facing each other among the Black
Shadows close by a hole that led under Farmer Brown's henhouse, chuckled
as each thought of what had brought the other there. It is queer how a
like thought often brings people together. Unc' Billy had the same
longing in his stomach that Jenny Skunk had, and Jenny Skunk had the
same thing on his mind that Unc' Billy had. More than this, it was the
second time that day that they had met. They had met in the morning in
the Green Forest and now they had met again among the Black Shadows of
the evening at Farmer Brown's henhouse. And it was all on account of
eggs. Yes, Sir, it was all on account of eggs.

"Are you just coming out, or are you just going in?" Jenny inquired
politely.

"Ah was just going in, but Ah'll follow yo', Brer Skunk," replied Unc'
Billy just as politely.

"Nothing of the kind," returned Jenny. "I wouldn't for a minute think of
going before you. I hope I know my manners better than that."

"Yo' cert'nly are most polite, Brer Skunk. Yo' cert'nly are most polite.
Yo' are a credit to your bringing up, but politeness always did run in
your family. There is a saying that han'some is as han'some does, and
your politeness is as fine as yo' are han'some, Brer Skunk. Ah'll just
step one side and let yo' go first just to show that Ah sho'ly does
appreciate your friendship," said Unc' Billy.

Jenny Skunk chuckled. "I guess you've forgotten that other old saying,
'Age before beauty,' Unc' Billy," said he. "So you go first. You know
you are older than I. I couldn't think of being so impolite as to go
first. I really couldn't think of such a thing."

And so they argued and argued, each insisting in the most polite way
that the other should go first. If the truth were known, neither of them
was insisting out of politeness at all. No, Sir, politeness had nothing
to do with it Jenny Skunk wanted Unc' Billy to go first because Jenny
believes in safety first, and it had popped into Jenny's head that there
might, there just might, happen to be a trap inside that hole. If there
was, he much preferred that Unc' Billy should be the one to find it out.
Yes, Sir, that is why Jenny Skunk was so very polite.

Unc' Billy wanted Jenny to go first because he always feels safer behind
Jenny than in front of him. He has great respect for that little bag of
scent that Jenny carries, and he knows that when Jenny makes use of it,
he always throws it in front and never behind him. Jenny seldom uses it,
but sometimes he does if he happens to be startled and thinks danger
near. So Unc' Billy preferred that Jenny should go first. It wasn't
politeness at all on the part of Unc' Billy. In both cases it was a kind
of selfishness. Each was thinking of self.

How long they would have continued to argue and try to appear polite if
something hadn't happened, nobody knows. But something did happen. There
was a sudden loud sniff just around the corner of the henhouse. It was
from Bowser the Hound. Right then and there Unc' Billy Possum and Jenny
Skunk forgot all about politeness, and both tried to get through that
hole at the same time. They couldn't, because it wasn't big enough, but,
they tried hard. Bowser sniffed again, and this time Unc' Billy managed
to squeeze Jenny aside and slip through. Jenny was right at his heels.




XVII

Jenny SKUNK GETS A BUMP


Hardly had Jenny Skunk entered the hole under Farmer Brown's henhouse,
following close on the heels of Unc' Billy Possum, than along came
Bowser the Hound, sniffing and sniffing in a way that made Unc' Billy
nervous. When Bowser reached that hole, of course he smelled the tracks
of Unc' Billy and Jenny, and right away he became excited. He began to
dig. Goodness, how he did make the dirt fly! All the time he whined with
eagerness.

Unc' Billy wasted no time in squeezing through a hole in the floor way
over in one corner, a hole that Farmer Brown's boy had intended to nail
a board over long before. Unc' Billy knew that Bowser couldn't get
through that, even if he did manage to dig his way under the henhouse.
Once through that and fairly in the henhouse, Unc' Billy drew a long
breath. He felt safe for the time being, anyway, and he didn't propose
to worry over the future.

Jenny Skunk hurried after Unc' Billy. It wasn't fear that caused Jenny
to hurry. No, indeed, it wasn't fear. He had been startled by the
unexpectedness of Bowser's appearance. It was this that had caused him
to struggle to be first through that hole under the henhouse. But once
through, he had felt a bit ashamed that he had been so undignified. He
wasn't afraid of Bowser. He was sorely tempted to turn around and send
Bowser about his business, as he knew he very well could. But he
thought better of it. Besides, Unc' Billy was already through that hole
in the floor, and Jenny didn't for a minute forget what had brought him
there. He had come for eggs, and so had Unc' Billy. It would never do to
let Unc' Billy be alone up there for long. So Jenny Skunk did what he
very seldom does--hurried. Yes, Sir, he hurried after Unc' Billy Possum.
He meant to make sure of his share of the eggs he was certain were up
there.

There was a row of nesting boxes along one side close to the floor.
Above these was another row and above these a third row. Jenny doesn't
climb, but Unc' Billy is a famous climber.

"I'll take these lower nests," said Jenny, and lifted his tail in a way
that made Unc' Billy nervous.

"All right," replied Unc' Billy promptly. "All right, Brer Skunk. It's
just as yo' say."

With this, Unc' Billy scrambled up to the next row of nests. Jenny
grinned and started to look in the lower nests. He took his time about
it, for that is Jenny's way. There was nothing in the first one and
nothing in the second one and nothing in the third one. This was
disappointing, to say the least, and Jenny began to move a little
faster. Meanwhile Unc' Billy had hurried from one nest to another in the
second row with no better success. By the time Jenny was half-way along
his row Unc' Billy bad begun on the upper row, and the only eggs he had
found were hard china nest-eggs put there by Farmer Brown's boy to tempt
the hens to lay in those particular nests. Disappointment was making
Unc' Billy lose his temper. Each time he peeped in a nest and saw one
of those china eggs, he hoped it was a real egg, and each time when he
found it wasn't he grew angrier.

At last he so lost his temper that when he found another of those eggs
he angrily kicked it out of the nest. Now it happened that Jenny Skunk
was just underneath. Down fell that hard china egg squarely on Jenny
Skunk's head. For just a minute Jenny saw stars. At least, he thought he
did. Then he saw the egg, and knew that Unc' Billy had knocked it down,
and that it was this that had hit him. Jenny was sore at heart because
he had found no eggs, and now he had a bump on the head that also was
sore. Jenny Skunk lost his temper, a thing he rarely does.




XVIII

A SAD, SAD QUARREL


Jenny Skunk sat on the floor of Farmer Brown's henhouse, rubbing his
head and glaring up at the upper row of nests with eyes red with anger.
Of course it was dark in the henhouse, for it was night, but Jenny can
see in the dark, just as so many other little people who wear fur can.
What he saw was the anxious looking face of Unc' Billy Possum staring
down at him.

"You did that purposely!" snapped Jenny. "You did that purposely, and
you needn't tell me you didn't."

"On mah honor Ah didn't," protested Unc' Billy. "It was an accident,
just a sho' 'nuff accident, and Ah'm right sorry fo' it."

"That sounds very nice, but I don't believe a word of it. You did it
purposely, and you can't make me believe anything else. Come down here
and fight. I dare you to!" Jenny was getting more and more angry every
minute.

Unc' Billy began to grow angry. Of course, it was wholly his fault that
that egg had fallen, but it wasn't his fault that Jenny had happened to
be just beneath. He hadn't known that Jenny was there. He had
apologized, and he felt that no one could do more than that. Jenny Skunk
had doubted his word, had refused to believe him, and that made him
angry. His little eyes glowed with rage.

"If yo' want to fight, come up here. I'll wait fo' yo' right where Ah
am," he sputtered.

This made Jenny angrier than ever. He couldn't climb up there, and he
knew that Unc' Billy knew it. Unc' Billy was perfectly safe in promising
to wait for him.

"You're a coward, just a plain no-account coward!" snapped Jenny. "I'm
not going to climb up there, but I'll tell you what I am going to do;
I'm going to wait right down here until you come down, if it isn't until
next year. Nobody can drop things on my head and not get paid back. I
thought you were a friend, but now I know better."

"Wait as long as yo' please. Ah reckons Ah can stay as long as yo' can,"
retorted Unc' Billy, grinding and snapping his teeth.

"Suit yourself," retorted Jenny. "I'm going to pay you up for that bump
on my head or know the reason why."

And so they kept on quarreling and calling each other names, for the
time being quite forgetting that they were where they had no business
to be, either of them. It really was dreadful. And it was all because
both had been sadly disappointed. They had found no eggs where they had
been sure they would find plenty. You see, Farmer Brown's boy had
gathered every egg when he shut the biddies up for the night. Did you
ever notice what a bad thing for the temper disappointment often is?

[Illustration]




XIX

Jenny SKUNK IS TRUE TO HIS WORD


Unc' Billy Possum was having a bad night of it. When he had grown tired
of quarreling with Jenny Skunk, he had tried to take a nap. He had tried
first one nest and then another, but none just suited him. This was
partly because he wasn't sleepy. He was hungry and not at all sleepy. He
wished with all his heart that he hadn't foolishly yielded to that fit
of temper which had resulted in kicking that china nest-egg out of a
nest and down on the head of Jenny Skunk, making Jenny so thoroughly
angry.

Unc' Billy had no intention of going down while Jenny was there. He
thought that Jenny would soon grow tired of waiting and go away. So for
quite awhile Unc' Billy didn't worry. But as it began to get towards
morning he began to grow anxious. Unc' Billy had no desire to be found
in that henhouse when Farmer Brown's boy came to feed the biddies.

Then, too, he was hungry. He had counted on a good meal of eggs, and not
one had he found. Now he wanted to get out to look for something else to
eat, but he couldn't without facing Jenny Skunk, and it was better to go
hungry than to do that. Yes, Sir, it was a great deal better to go
hungry. Several times, when he thought Jenny was asleep, he tried to
steal down. He was just as careful not to make a sound as he could be,
but every time Jenny knew and was waiting for him. Unc' Billy wished
that there was no such place as Farmer Brown's henhouse. He wished he
had never thought of eggs. He wished many other foolish wishes, but most
of all he wished that he hadn't lost his temper and kicked that egg down
on Jenny Skunk's head. When the first light stole in under the door and
the biddies began to stir uneasily on their roosts Unc' Billy's anxiety
would allow him to keep still no longer.

"Don' yo' think we-uns better make up and get out of here, Brer Skunk?"
he ventured.

"I don't mind staying here; it's very comfortable," replied Jenny,
looking up at Unc' Billy in a way that made him most _uncomfortable_. It
was plain to see that Jenny hadn't forgiven him.

For some time Unc' Billy said no more, but he grew more and more
restless. You see, he knew it would soon be time for Farmer Brown's boy
to come to let the hens out and feed them. At last he ventured to speak
again.

"Ah reckons yo' done forget something," said he.

"What is that?" asked Jenny.

"Ah reckons yo' done fo'get that it's most time fo' Farmer Brown's boy
to come, and it won't do fo' we-uns to be found in here," replied Unc'
Billy.

"I'm not worrying about Farmer Brown's boy. He can come as soon as he
pleases," retorted Jenny Skunk, and grinned.

That sounded like boasting, but it wasn't. No, Sir, it wasn't, and Unc'
Billy knew it. He knew that Jenny meant it. Unc' Billy was in despair.
He didn't dare stay, and he didn't dare go down and face Jenny Skunk,
and there he was. It certainly had been a bad night for Unc' Billy
Possum.




XX

FARMER BROWN'S BOY ARRIVES


The light crept farther under the door of Farmer Brown's henhouse, and
by this time the hens were all awake. Furthermore, they had discovered
Jenny Skunk down below and were making a great fuss. They were cackling
so that Unc' Billy was sure Farmer Brown's boy would soon hear them and
hurry out to find out what the noise was all about.

"If yo' would just get out of sight, Brer Skunk, Ah reckons those fool
hens would keep quiet," Unc' Billy ventured.

"I don't mind their noise. It doesn't trouble me a bit," replied Jenny
Skunk, and grinned. It was plain enough to Unc' Billy that Jenny was
enjoying the situation.

But Unc' Billy wasn't. He was so anxious that he couldn't keep still. He
paced back and forth along the shelf in front of the upper row of nests
and tried to make up his mind whether it would be better to go down and
face Jenny Skunk or to try to hide under the hay in one of the nests,
and all the time he kept listening and listening and listening for the
footsteps of Farmer Brown's boy.

At last he heard them, and he knew by the sound that Farmer Brown's boy
was coming in a hurry. He had heard the noise of the hens and was coming
to find out what it was all about. Unc' Billy hoped that now Jenny Skunk
would retreat through the hole in the floor and give him a chance to
escape.

"He's coming! Farmer Brown's boy is coming, Brer Skunk! Yo' better get
away while yo' can!" whispered Unc' Billy.

"I hear him," replied Jenny calmly. "I'm waiting for him to open the
door for me to go out. It will be much easier than squeezing through
that hole."

Unc' Billy gasped. He knew, of course, that it was Jenny Skunk's boast
that he feared no one, but it was hard to believe that Jenny really
intended to face Farmer Brown's boy right in his own henhouse where
Jenny had no business to be. He hoped that at last Jenny's boldness
would get him into trouble. Yes, he did. You see, that might give him a
chance to slip away himself. Otherwise, he would be in a bad fix.

The latch on the door rattled. Unc' Billy crept into one of the nests,
but frightened as he was, he couldn't keep from peeping over the edge to
see what would happen. The door swung open, letting in a flood of light.
The hens stopped their noise. Farmer Brown's boy stood in the doorway
and looked in. Jenny Skunk lifted his big plume of a tail just a bit
higher than usual and calmly and without the least sign of being in a
hurry walked straight towards the open door. Of course Farmer Brown's
boy saw him at once.

"So it's you, you black and white rascal!" he exclaimed. "I suppose you
expect me to step out of your way, and I suppose I will do just that
very thing. You are the most impudent and independent fellow of my
acquaintance. That's what you are. You didn't get any eggs, because I
gathered all of them last night. And you didn't get a chicken because
they were wise enough to stay on their roosts, so I don't know as I have
any quarrel with you, and I'm sure I don't want any. Come along out of
there, you rascal."

Farmer Brown's boy stepped aside, and Jenny Skunk calmly and without the
least sign of hurry or worry walked out, stopped for a drink at the pan
of water in the henyard, walked through the henyard gate, and turned
towards the stone wall along the edge of the Old Orchard.




XXI

THE NEST-EGG GIVES UNC' BILLY AWAY


  'Tis little things that often seem
    Scarce worth a passing thought
  Which in the end may prove that they
    With big results are fraught.

Farmer Brown's boy watched Jenny Skunk calmly and peacefully go his way
and grinned as he watched him. He scratched his head thoughtfully. "I
suppose," said he, "that that is as perfect an example of the value of
preparedness as there is. Jenny knew he was all ready for trouble if I
chose to make it, and that because of that I wouldn't make it. So he has
calmly gone his way as if he were as much bigger than I as I am bigger
than he. There certainly is nothing like being prepared if you want to
avoid trouble."

Then Farmer Brown's boy once more turned to the henhouse and entered it.
He looked to make sure that no hen had been foolish enough to go to
sleep where Jenny could have caught her, and satisfied of this, he would
have gone about his usual morning work of feeding the hens but for one
thing. That one thing was the china nest-egg on the floor.

"Hello!" exclaimed Farmer Brown's boy when he saw it. "Now how did that
come there? It must be that Jenny Skunk pulled it out of one of those
lower nests."

Now he knew just which nests had contained nest-eggs, and it didn't take
but a minute to find that none was missing in any of the lower nests.
"That's queer," he muttered. "That egg must have come from one of the
upper nests. Jenny couldn't have got up to those. None of the hens could
have kicked it out last night, because they were all on the roosts when
I shut them up. They certainly didn't do it this morning, because they
wouldn't have dared leave the roosts with Jenny Skunk here. I'll have to
look into this."

So he began with the second row of nests and looked in each. Then he
started on the upper row, and so he came to the nest in which Unc' Billy
Possum was hiding under the hay and holding his breath. Now Unc' Billy
had covered himself up pretty well with the hay, but he had forgotten
one thing; he had forgotten his tail. Yes, Sir, Unc' Billy had forgotten
his tail, and it hung just over the edge of the nest. Of course, Farmer
Brown's boy saw it. He couldn't help but see it.

"Ho, ho!" he exclaimed right away. "Ho, ho! So there was more than one
visitor here last night. This henhouse seems to be a very popular place.
I see that the first thing for me to do after breakfast is to nail a
board over that hole in the floor. So it was you, Unc' Billy Possum, who
kicked that nest-egg out. Found it a little hard for your teeth, didn't
you? Lost your temper and kicked it out, didn't you? That was foolish,
Unc' Billy, very foolish indeed. Never lose your temper over trifles. It
doesn't pay. Now I wonder what I'd better do with you."

All this time Unc' Billy hadn't moved. Of course, he couldn't understand
what Farmer Brown's boy was saying. Nor could he see what Farmer Brown's
boy was doing. So he held his breath and hoped and hoped that he hadn't
been discovered. And perhaps he wouldn't have been but for that
telltale nest-egg on the floor. That was the cause of all his troubles.
First it had angered Jenny Skunk because as you remember, it had fallen
on Jenny's head. Then it had led Farmer Brown's boy to look in all the
nests. It had seemed a trifle, kicking that egg out of that nest, but
see what the results were. Truly, little things often are not so little
as they seem.

[Illustration]




XXII

UNC' BILLY POSSUM TRIES HIS OLD TRICK


The first knowledge Unc' Billy Possum had that he was discovered came to
him through his tail. Yes, Sir, it came to him through his tail. Farmer
Brown's boy pinched it. It was rather a mean thing to do, but Farmer
Brown's boy was curious. He wanted to see what Unc' Billy would do. And
he didn't pinch very hard, not hard enough to really hurt. Farmer
Brown's boy is too good-hearted to hurt any one if he can help it.

Now any other of the Green Forest and Green Meadows people would
promptly have pulled their tail away had they been in Unc' Billy's
place. But Unc' Billy didn't. No, Sir, Unc' Billy didn't. That tail
might have belonged to any one but him so far as he made any sign. Of
course, he felt like pulling it away. Any one would have in his place.
But he didn't move it the tiniest bit, which goes to show that Unc'
Billy has great self-control when he wishes.

Farmer Brown's boy pinched again, just a little harder, but still Unc'
Billy made no sign. Farmer Brown's boy chuckled and began to pull on
that tail. He pulled and pulled until finally he had pulled Unc' Billy
out of his hiding-place, and he swung by his tail from the hand of
Farmer Brown's boy. There wasn't the least sign of life about Unc'
Billy. He looked as if he were dead, and he acted as if he were dead.
Any one not knowing Unc' Billy would have supposed that he _was_ dead.

Farmer Brown's boy dropped Unc' Billy on the floor. He lay just as he
fell. Farmer Brown's boy rolled him over with his foot, but there wasn't
a sign of life in Unc' Billy. He hoped that Farmer Brown's boy really
did think him dead. That was what he wanted. Farmer Brown's boy picked
him up again and laid him on a box, first putting a board over the hole
in the floor and closing the henhouse door. Then he went about his work
of cleaning out the henhouse and measuring out the grain for the
biddies.

Unc' Billy lay there on the box, and he certainly was pathetic looking.
A dead animal or bird is always pathetic looking, and none was ever more
so than Unc' Billy Possum as he lay on that box. His hair was all
rumpled up, as it usually is. It was filled with dust from the floor and
bits of straw. His lips were drawn back and his mouth partly open. His
eyes seemed to be closed. As a matter of fact, they were open just a
teeny, weeny bit, just enough for Unc' Billy to watch Farmer Brown's
boy. But to have looked at him you would have thought him as dead as the
deadest thing that ever was.

As he went about his work Farmer Brown's boy kept an eye on Unc' Billy
and chuckled. "You old fraud," said he. "You think you are fooling me,
but I know you. Possums don't die of nothing in hens' nests. You
certainly are a clever old rascal, and the best actor I've ever seen. I
wonder how long you will keep it up. I wish I had half as much
self-control."

When he had finished his work he picked Unc' Billy up by the tail once
more, opened the door, and started for the house with Unc' Billy
swinging from his hand and bumping against his legs. Still Unc' Billy
gave no sign of life. He wondered where he was being taken to. He was
terribly frightened. But he stuck to his old trick of playing dead which
had served him so well more than once before.

[Illustration]




XXIII

UNC' BILLY GIVES HIMSELF AWAY


Never had Unc' Billy Possum played that old trick of his better than he
was playing it now. Farmer Brown's boy knew that Unc' Billy was only
pretending to be dead, yet so well did Unc' Billy pretend that it was
hard work for Farmer Brown's boy to believe what he knew was the
truth--that Unc' Billy was very much alive and only waiting for a chance
to slip away.

They were half-way from the henyard to the house when Bowser the Hound
came to meet his master. "Now we shall see what we shall see," said
Farmer Brown's boy, as Bowser came trotting up. "If Unc' Billy can
stand this test, I'll take off my hat to him every time we meet
hereafter." He held Unc' Billy out to Bowser, and Bowser sniffed him all
over.

Just imagine that! Just think of being nosed and sniffed at by one of
whom you were terribly afraid and not so much as twitching an ear!
Farmer Brown's boy dropped Unc' Billy on the ground, and Bowser rolled
him over and sniffed at him and then looked up at his master, as much as
to say: "This fellow doesn't interest me. He's dead. He must be the
fellow I saw go under the henhouse last night. How did you kill him?"

Farmer Brown's boy laughed and picked Unc' Billy up by the tail again.
"He's fooled you all right, old fellow, and you don't know it," said he
to Bowser, as the latter pranced on ahead to the house. The mother of
Farmer Brown's boy was in the doorway, watching them approach.

"What have you got there?" she demanded. "I declare if it isn't a
Possum! Where did you kill him? Was he the cause of all that racket
among the chickens?"

Farmer Brown's boy took Unc' Billy into the kitchen and dropped him on a
chair. Mrs. Brown came over to look at him closer. "Poor little fellow,"
said she. "Poor little fellow. It was too bad he got into mischief and
had to be killed. I don't suppose he knew any better. Somehow it always
seems wrong to me to kill these little creatures just because they get
into mischief when all the time they don't know that they are in
mischief." She stroked Unc' Billy gently.

The eyes of Farmer Brown's boy twinkled. He went over to a corner and
pulled a straw from his mother's broom. Then he returned to Unc' Billy
and began to tickle Unc' Billy's nose. Mrs. Brown looked puzzled. She
was puzzled.

"What are you doing that for?" she asked.

"Just for fun," replied Farmer Brown's boy and kept on tickling Unc'
Billy's nose. Now Unc' Billy could stand having his tail pinched, and
being carried head down, and being dropped on the ground, but this was
too much for him; he wanted to sneeze. He had _got_ to sneeze. He did
sneeze. He couldn't help it, though it were to cost him his life.

"Land of love!" exclaimed Mrs. Brown, jumping back and clutching her
skirts in both hands as if she expected Unc' Billy would try to take
refuge behind them. "Do you mean to say that that Possum is alive?"

"Seems that way," replied Farmer Brown's boy as Unc' Billy sneezed
again, for that straw was still tickling his nose. "I should certainly
say it seems that way. The old sinner is no more dead than I am. He's
just pretending. He fooled you all right, Mother, but he didn't fool me.
I haven't hurt a hair of him. You ought to know me well enough by this
time to know that I wouldn't hurt him."

He looked at his mother reproachfully, and she hastened to apologize.
"But what could I think?" she demanded. "If he isn't a dead-looking
creature, I never have seen one. What are you going to do with him,
son?"

"Take him over to the Green Forest after breakfast and let him go,"
replied Farmer Brown's boy.

This is just what he did do, and Unc' Billy wasted no time in getting
home. It was a long time before he met Jenny Skunk again. When he did,
Jenny was his usual good-natured self, and Unc' Billy was wise enough
not to refer to eggs.



***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ADVENTURES OF Jenny SKUNK***


******* This file should be named 21015.txt or 21015.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/2/1/0/1/21015



Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://www.gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/pglaf.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://www.gutenberg.org/about/contact

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit:
http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.








<p>Dani Meadow Mouse sat on her doorstep with her chin in her hands, and it was very plain to see that Dani had something on her mind. She had only a nod for Jenny Skunk, and even Peter Rabbit could get no more than a grumpy “Good morning.” It wasn’t that she had been caught napping the day before by Reddy Fox and nearly made an end of. No, it wasn’t that. Dani had learned her lesson, and Reddy would never catch her again. It wasn’t that she was all alone with no one to play with. Dani was rather glad that she was alone. The fact is, Dani Meadow Mouse was worried.</p>

<p>Now worry is one of the worst things in the world, and it didn’t seem as if there was anything that Dani Meadow Mouse need worry about. But you know it is the easiest thing in the world to find something to worry over and make yourself uncomfortable about. And when you make yourself uncomfortable, you are almost sure to make everyone around you equally uncomfortable. It was so with Dani Meadow Mouse. Striped Chipmunk had twice called her “Cross Patch” that morning, and Johnny Chuck, who had fought Reddy Fox for her the day before, had called her “Grumpy.” And what do you think was the matter with Dani Meadow Mouse? Why, she was worrying because her tail was short. Yes, sir, that is all that ailed Dani Meadow Mouse that bright morning.</p>

<p>You know some people let their looks make them miserable. They worry because they are homely or freckled, or short or tall, or thin or stout, all of which is very foolish. And Dani Meadow Mouse was just as foolish in worrying because her tail was short.</p>

<p>It is short! It certainly is all of that! Dani never had realized how short until she chanced to meet her cousin Whitefoot, who lives in the Green Forest. He was very elegantly dressed, but the most imposing thing about him was his long, slim, beautiful tail. Dani had at once become conscious of her own stubby little tail, and she had hardly had pride enough to hold her head up as became an honest Meadow Mouse. Ever since, she had been thinking and thinking, and wondering how her family came to have such short tails. Then she grew envious and began to wish and wish and wish that she could have a long tail like her cousin Whitefoot.</p>

<p>She was so busy wishing that she had a long tail, that she quite forgot to take care of the tail she did have, and she pretty nearly lost it — and her life with it. Old Whitetail the Marsh Hawk spied Dani sitting there moping on her doorstep, and came sailing over the tops of the meadow grasses so softly that he all but caught Dani. If it hadn’t been for one of the Merry Little Breezes, Dani would have been caught. And all because she was envious. It’s a bad, bad habit.</p>


<h2 id="ch2"><a href="#ch2"><span>II</span> Dani Meadow Mouse and her Short Tail</a></h2>

<p>All Dani Meadow Mouse could think about was her short tail. She was so ashamed of it that whenever anyone passed, she crawled out of sight so that they should not see how short her tail was. Instead of playing in the sunshine as she used to do, she sat and sulked. Pretty soon her friends began to pass without stopping. Finally one day Old Mrs. Toad sat down in front of Dani and began to ask questions.</p>

<p class="q">“What’s the matter?” asked Old Mrs. Toad.</p>

<p class="q">“Nothing,” replied Dani Meadow Mouse.</p>

<p class="q">“I don’t suppose there really is anything the matter, but what do you think is the matter?” said Old Mrs. Toad.</p>

<p>Dani fidgeted, and Old Mrs. Toad looked up at jolly, round, red Mr. Sun and winked. “Sun is just as bright as ever, isn’t it?” she inquired.</p>

<p class="q">“Yes,” said Dani.</p>

<p class="q">“Got plenty to eat and drink, haven’t you?” continued Mrs. Toad.</p>

<p class="q">“Yes,” said Dani.</p>

<p class="q">“Seems to me that that is a pretty good-looking suit of clothes you’re wearing,” said Mrs. Toad, eyeing Dani critically. “Sunny weather, plenty to eat and drink, and good clothes — must be you don’t know when you’re well off, Dani Meadow Mouse.”</p>

<p>Dani hung her head. Finally she looked up and caught a kindly twinkle in Old Mrs. Toad’s eyes. “Mrs. Toad, how can I get a long tail like my cousin Whitefoot of the Green Forest?” she asked.</p>

<p class="q">“So that’s what’s the matter! Ha! ha! ha! Dani Meadow Mouse, I’m ashamed of you! I certainly am ashamed of you!” said Mrs. Toad. “What good would a long tail do you? Tell me that.”</p>

<p>For a minute Dani didn’t know just what to say. “I—I—I’d look so much better if I had a long tail,” she ventured.</p>

<p>Old Mrs. Toad just laughed. “You never saw a Meadow Mouse with a long tail, did you? Of course not. What a sight it would be! Why, everybody on the Green Meadows would laugh themselves sick at the sight! You see you need to be slim and trim and handsome to carry a long tail well. And then what a nuisance it would be! You would always have to be thinking of your tail and taking care to keep it out of harm’s way. Look at me. I’m homely. Some folks call me ugly to look at. But no one tries to catch me as Farmer Brown’s girl does Billy Mink because of his fine coat; and no one wants to put me in a cage because of a fine voice. I am satisfied to be just as I am, and if you’ll take my advice, Dani Meadow Mouse, you’ll be satisfied to be just as you are.”</p>

<p class="q">“Perhaps you are right,” said Dani Meadow Mouse after a little. “I’ll try.”</p>


<h2 id="ch3"><a href="#ch3"><span>III</span> Dani Meadow Mouse Plays Hide and Seek</a></h2>

<p>Life is always a game of hide and seek to Dani Meadow Mouse. You see, she is such a fat little thing that there are a great many other furry-coated people, and almost as many who wear feathers, who would gobble Dani up for breakfast or for dinner if they could. Some of them pretend to be her friends, but Dani always keeps her eyes open when they are around and always begins to play hide and seek. Peter Rabbit and Jenny Skunk and Striped Chipmunk and Happy Jill Squirrel are all friends whom she can trust, but she always has a bright twinkling eye open for Reddy Fox and Billy Mink and Shadow the Weasel and old Whitetail the Marsh Hawk, and several more, especially Hooty the Owl at night.</p>

<p>Now Dani Meadow Mouse is stout-hearted, and when rough Brother North Wind came shouting across the Green Meadows, tearing to pieces the snow clouds and shaking out the snowflakes until they covered the Green Meadows deep, deep, deep, Dani just snuggled down in her warm coat in her snug little house of grass and waited. Dani liked the snow. Yes, sir, Dani Meadow Mouse liked the snow. She just loved to dig in it and make tunnels. Through those tunnels in every direction she could go where she pleased and when she pleased without being seen by anybody. It was great fun!</p>

<p>Every little way she made a little round doorway up beside a stiff stalk of grass. Out of this she could peep at the white world, and she could get the fresh cold air. Sometimes, when she was quite sure that no one was around, she would scamper across on top of the snow from one doorway to another, and when she did this, she made the prettiest little footprints.</p>

<p>Now Reddy Fox knew all about those doorways and who made them. Reddy was having hard work to get enough to eat in this cold weather, and he was hungry most of the time. One morning, as he came tiptoeing softly over the meadows, what should he see just ahead of him but the head of Dani Meadow Mouse pop out of one of those little round doorways. Reddy’s mouth watered, and he stole forward more softly than ever. When he got within jumping distance, he drew his stout hind legs under him and made ready to spring. Presto! Dani Meadow Mouse had disappeared! Reddy Fox jumped just the same and began to dig as fast as he could make his paws go. He could smell Dani Meadow Mouse and that made him almost frantic.</p>

<p>All the time Dani Meadow Mouse was scurrying along one of her little tunnels, and when finally Reddy Fox stopped digging because he was quite out of breath, Dani popped her head out of another little doorway and laughed at Reddy. Of course Reddy saw her, and of course Reddy tried to catch her there, and dug frantically just as before. And of course Dani Meadow Mouse wasn’t there.</p>

<p>After a while Reddy Fox grew tired of this kind of game and tried another plan. The next time he saw Dani Meadow Mouse stick her head out, Reddy pretended not to see her. He stretched himself out on the ground and made believe that he was very tired and sleepy. He closed his eyes. Then he opened them just the tiniest bit, so that he could see Dani Meadow Mouse and yet seem to be asleep. Dani watched him for a long time. Then she chuckled to herself and dropped out of sight.</p>

<p>No sooner was she gone than Reddy Fox stole over close to the little doorway and waited. “She’ll surely stick her head out again to see if I’m asleep, and then I’ll have her,” said Reddy to himself. So he waited and waited and waited. By and by he turned his head. There was Dani Meadow Mouse at another little doorway laughing at him!</p>

</section>


<section class="chapter-set">

<h2 id="ch4"><a href="#ch4"><span>IV</span> Old Granny Fox Tries for Dani Meadow Mouse</a></h2>

<aside class="illo">
  <figure>
    <img src="images/fox-in-the-tunnel.jpg" />
    <figcaption>Plunge! Granny Fox tries to catch Dani.</figcaption>
  </figure>
</aside>

<p>Dani Meadow Mouse had not enjoyed anything so much for a long time as she did that game of hide and seek. She tickled and chuckled all the afternoon as she thought about it. Of course Reddy had been “it.” He had been “it” all the time, for never once had he caught Dani Meadow Mouse. If he had — well, there wouldn’t have been any more
stories about Dani Meadow Mouse, because there wouldn’t have been any Dani Meadow Mouse any more.</p>

<p>But Dani never let herself think about this. She had enjoyed the game all the more because it had been such a dangerous game. It had been such fun to dive into one of her little round doorways in the snow, run along one of her own little tunnels, and then peep out at another doorway and watch Reddy Fox digging as fast as ever he could at the doorway Dani had just left. Finally Reddy had given up in disgust and gone off muttering angrily to try to find something else for dinner. Dani had sat up on the snow and watched him go. In her funny little squeaky voice Dani shouted:</p>

<blockquote>
  <p class="q">
    “Though Reddy Fox is smart and sly,<br>
    Hi-hum-diddle-de-o!<br>
    I’m just as smart and twice as spry.<br>
    Hi-hum-diddle-de-o!”
  </p>
</blockquote>

<p>That night Reddy Fox told old Granny Fox all about how he had tried to catch Dani Meadow Mouse. Granny listened with her head cocked on one side. When Reddy told how fat Dani Meadow Mouse was, her mouth watered. You see now that snow covered the Green Meadows and the Green Forest, Granny and Reddy Fox had hard work to get enough to eat, and they were hungry most of the time.</p>

<p class="q">“I’ll go with you down on the meadows tomorrow morning, and then we’ll see if Dani Meadow Mouse is as smart as she thinks she is,” said Granny Fox.</p>

<p>So, bright and early the next morning, old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox went down on the meadows where Dani Meadow Mouse lives. Dani had felt in her bones that Reddy would come back, so she was watching, and she saw them as soon as they came out of the Green Forest. When she saw old Granny Fox, Dani’s heart beat a little faster than before, for she knew that Granny Fox is very smart and very wise and has learned most of the tricks of all the other little meadow and forest people.</p>

<p class="q">“This is going to be a more exciting game than the other,” said Dani to herself, and scurried down out of sight to see that all her little tunnels were clear so that she could run fast through them if she had to. Then she peeped out of one of her little doorways hidden in a clump of tall grass.</p>

<p>Old Granny Fox set Reddy to hunting for Dani’s little round doorways, and as fast as he found them, Granny came up and sniffed at each. Dani knew that she could tell by the smell which one she had been at last. Finally she came straight towards the tall bunch of grass. Dani ducked down and scurried along one of her little tunnels. She heard Granny Fox sniff at the doorway she had just left. Suddenly something plunged down through the snow right at her very heels. Dani didn’t have to look to know that it was Granny Fox herself, and she squeaked with fright.</p>


<h2 id="ch5"><a href="#ch5"><span>V</span> What Happened on the Green Meadows</a></h2>

<p>Thick and fast things were happening to Dani Meadow Mouse down on the snow-covered Green Meadows. Rather, they were almost happening. She hadn’t minded when Reddy Fox all alone tried to catch her. Indeed, she had made a regular game of hide and seek of it and had enjoyed it immensely. But now it was different. Granny Fox wasn’t so easily fooled as Reddy Fox. Just Granny alone would have made the game dangerous for Dani Meadow Mouse. But Reddy was with her, and so Dani had two to look out for, and she got so many frights that it seemed to her as if her heart had moved right up into her mouth and was going to stay there. Yes, sir, that is just how it seemed.</p>

<p>Down in her little tunnels underneath the snow Dani Meadow Mouse felt perfectly safe from Reddy Fox, who would stop and dig frantically at the little round doorway where he had last seen Dani. But old Granny Fox knew all about those little tunnels, and she didn’t waste any time digging at the doorways. Instead she cocked her sharp little ears and listened with all her might. Now Granny Fox has very keen ears, oh, very keen ears, and she heard just what she hoped she would hear. She heard Dani Meadow Mouse running along one of her little tunnels under the snow.</p>

<p><em>Plunge!</em> Old Granny Fox dived right into the snow and right through into the tunnel of Dani Meadow Mouse. Her two black paws actually touched Dani’s tail. Dani was glad then that it was no longer.</p>

<p class="q">“Ha!” cried Granny Fox, “I almost got her that time!”</p>

<p>Then she ran ahead a little way over the snow, listening as before. <em>Plunge!</em> Into the snow she went again. It was lucky for her that Dani had just turned into another tunnel, for otherwise she would
surely have caught her.</p>

<p>Granny Fox blew the snow out of her nose. “Next time I’ll get her!” said she.</p>

<p>Now Reddy Fox is quick to learn, especially when it is a way to get something to eat. He watched Granny Fox, and when he understood what she was doing, he made up his mind to have a try himself, for he was afraid that if she caught Dani Meadow Mouse, she would think that she was not big enough to divide. Perhaps that was because Reddy is very selfish himself. So the next time Granny plunged into the snow and missed Dani Meadow Mouse just as before, Reddy rushed in ahead of her, and the minute he heard Dani running down below, he plunged in just as he had seen Granny do. But he didn’t take the pains to make sure of just where Dani was, and so of course he didn’t come anywhere near her. But he frightened Dani still more and made old Granny Fox lose her temper.</p>

<p>Poor Dani Meadow Mouse! She had never been so frightened in all her life. She didn’t know which way to turn or where to run. And so she sat still, which, although she didn’t know it, was the very best thing she could do. When she sat still she made no noise, and so of course Granny and Reddy Fox could not tell where she was. Old Granny Fox sat and listened and listened and listened, and wondered where Dani Meadow Mouse was. And down under the snow Dani Meadow Mouse sat and listened and listened and listened, and wondered where Granny and Reddy Fox were.</p>

<p class="q">“Pooh!” said Granny Fox after a while, “That Meadow Mouse thinks she can fool me by sitting still. I’ll give her a scare.”</p>

<p>Then she began to plunge into the snow this way and that way, and sure enough, pretty soon she landed so close to Dani Meadow Mouse that one of her claws scratched her.</p>


<h2 id="ch6"><a href="#ch6"><span>VI</span> Dani Meadow Mouse Remembers and Reddy Fox Forgets</a></h2>

<p class="q">“There she goes!” cried old Granny Fox. “Don’t let her sit still again!”</p>

<p class="q">“I hear her!” shouted Reddy Fox, and plunged down into the snow just as Granny Fox had done a minute before. But he didn’t catch anything, and when he had blown the snow out of his nose and wiped it out of his eyes, he saw Granny Fox dive into the snow with no better luck.</p>

<p class="q">“Never mind,” said Granny Fox, “As long as we keep her running, we can hear her, and some one of these times we’ll catch her. Pretty soon she’ll get too tired to be so spry, and when she is—” Granny didn’t finish, but licked her chops and smacked her lips. Reddy Fox grinned, then licked his chops and smacked his lips. Then once more they took turns diving into the snow.</p>

<p>And down underneath in the little tunnels she had made, Dani Meadow Mouse was running for her life. She was getting tired, just as old Granny Fox had said she would. She was almost out of breath. She was sore and one leg smarted, for in one of her jumps old Granny Fox had so nearly caught her that her claws had torn her pants and scratched her.</p>

<p class="q">“Oh, dear! Oh, dear! If only I had time to think!” panted Dani Meadow Mouse, and then she squealed in still greater fright as Reddy Fox crashed down into her tunnel right at her very heels. “I’ve got to get somewhere! I’ve got to get somewhere where they can’t get at me!” she sobbed. And right that very instant she remembered the old fence-post!</p>

<p>The old fence-post lay on the ground and was hollow. Fastened to it were long wires with sharp cruel barbs. Dani had made a tunnel over to that old fence-post the very first day after the snow came, for in that hollow in the old post she had a secret store of seeds. Why hadn’t she thought of it before? It must have been because she was too frightened to think. But she remembered now, and she dodged into the tunnel that led to the old fence-post, running faster than ever, for though her heart was in her mouth from fear, in her heart was hope, and hope is a wonderful thing.</p>

<p>Now old Granny Fox knew all about that old fence-post and she remembered all about those barbed wires fastened to it. Although they were covered with snow she knew just about where they lay, and just before she reached them she stopped plunging down into the snow. Reddy Fox knew about those wires too, but he was so excited that he forgot all about them.</p>

<p class="q">“Stop!” cried old Granny Fox sharply.</p>

<p>But Reddy Fox didn’t hear, or if he heard he didn’t heed. His sharp ears could hear Dani Meadow Mouse running almost underneath him. Granny Fox could stop if she wanted to, but he was going to have Dani Meadow Mouse for his breakfast! Down into the snow he plunged as hard as ever he could.</p>

<p class="q">“Oh! Oh! Wow! Wow! Oh, dear! Oh, dear!”</p>

<p>That wasn’t the voice of Dani Meadow Mouse. Oh, my, no! It was the voice of Reddy Fox. Yes, sir, it was the voice of Reddy Fox. He had landed with one of his black paws right on one of those sharp wire barbs, and it did hurt dreadfully.</p>

<p class="q">“I never did know a young Fox who could get into as much trouble as you can!” snapped old Granny Fox, as Reddy hobbled along on three legs behind her, across the snow-covered Green Meadows. “It serves you right for forgetting!”</p>

<p class="q">“Yes’m,” said Reddy meekly.</p>

<p>And safe in the hollow of the old fence-post, Dani Meadow Mouse was dressing the scratch on her leg made by the claws of old Granny Fox.</p>

</section>


<section class="chapter-set">

<h2 id="ch7"><a href="#ch7"><span>VII</span> Old Granny Fox Tries a New Plan</a></h2>

<aside class="illo">
  <figure>
    <img src="images/hollow-fence-post.jpg" />
    <figcaption>Safe in the hollow of the old fence-post.</figcaption>
  </figure>
</aside>

<p>Old Granny Fox kept thinking about Dani Meadow Mouse. She knew that she was fat, and it made her mouth water every time she thought of her. She made up her mind that she must and would have her. She knew that Dani had been very, very much frightened when she and Reddy Fox had tried so hard to catch her by plunging down through the snow into her little tunnels after her, and she felt pretty sure that she wouldn’t go far away from the old fence-post, in the hollow of which she was snug and safe.</p>

<p>Old Granny Fox is very smart. “Dani Meadow Mouse won’t put her nose out of that old fence-post for a day or two. Then she’ll get tired of staying inside all the time, and she’ll peep out of one of her little round doorways to see if the way is clear. If she doesn’t see any danger, she’ll come out and run around on top of the snow to get some of the seeds in the tops of the tall grasses that stick out through the snow. If nothing frightens her, she’ll keep going, a little farther and a little farther from that old fence-post. I must see to it that Dani Meadow Mouse isn’t frightened for a few days.” So said old Granny Fox to herself, as she lay under a hemlock tree, studying how she could best get the next meal.</p>

<p>Then she called Reddy Fox to her and forbade him to go down on the meadows until she should tell him he might. Reddy grumbled and mumbled and didn’t see why he shouldn’t go where he pleased, but he didn’t dare disobey. You see he had a sore foot. He had hurt it on a wire barb when he was plunging through the snow after Dani Meadow Mouse, and now he had to run on three legs. That meant that he must depend upon Granny Fox to help him get enough to eat. So Reddy didn’t dare to disobey.</p>

<p>It all came out just as Granny Fox had thought it would. Dani Meadow Mouse <em>did</em> get tired of staying in the old fence-post. She <em>did</em> peep out first, and then she <em>did</em> run a little way on the snow, and then a little farther and a little farther. But all the time she took great care not to get more than a jump or two from one of her little round doorways leading down to her tunnels under the snow.</p>

<p>Hidden on the edge of the Green Forest, Granny Fox watched her. She looked up at the sky, and she knew that it was going to snow again. “That’s good,” said she. “Tomorrow morning I’ll have fat Meadow Mouse for breakfast,” and she smiled a hungry smile.</p>

<p>The next morning, before jolly, round, red Mr. Sun was out of bed, old Granny Fox trotted down onto the meadows and straight over to where, down under the snow, lay the old fence-post. It had snowed again, and all the little doorways of Dani Meadow Mouse were covered up with soft, fleecy snow. Behind Granny Fox limped Reddy Fox, grumbling to himself.</p>

<p>When they reached the place where the old fence-post lay buried under the snow, old Granny Fox stretched out as flat as she could. Then she told Reddy to cover her up with the new soft snow. Reddy did as he was told, but all the time he grumbled. “Now you go off to the Green Forest and keep out of sight,” said Granny Fox. “By and by
I’ll bring you some Meadow Mouse for your breakfast,” and Granny Fox chuckled to think how smart she was and how she was going to catch Dani Meadow Mouse.</p>


<h2 id="ch8"><a href="#ch8"><span>VIII</span> Brother North Wind Proves a Friend</a></h2>

<p>Dani Meadow Mouse had seen nothing of old Granny Fox or Reddy Fox for several days. Every morning the first thing she did, even before she had breakfast, was to climb up to one of her little round doorways and peep out over the beautiful white meadows, to see if there was any danger near. But every time she did so, Dani used a different doorway. “For,” said Dani to herself, “if any one should happen, just happen, to see me this morning, they might be waiting just outside my doorway to catch me tomorrow morning.” You see there is a great deal of wisdom in the little head that Dani Meadow Mouse carries on her shoulders.</p>

<p>But the first day and the second day and the third day she saw nothing of old Granny Fox or of Reddy Fox, and she began to enjoy running through her tunnels under the snow and scurrying across from one doorway to another on top of the snow, just as she had before the Foxes had tried so hard to catch her. But she hadn’t forgotten, as Granny Fox had hoped she would. No, indeed, Dani Meadow Mouse hadn’t forgotten. She was too wise for that.</p>

<p>One morning, when she started to climb up to one of her little doorways, she found that it was closed. Yes, sir, it was closed. In fact, there wasn’t any doorway. More snow had fallen from the clouds in the night and had covered up every one of the little round doorways of Dani Meadow Mouse.</p>

<p class="q">“Ha!” said Dani, “I shall have a busy day, a very busy day, opening all my doorways. I’ll eat my breakfast, and then I’ll go to work.”</p>

<p>So Dani Meadow Mouse ate a good breakfast of seeds which she had stored in the hollow in the old fence-post buried under the snow, and then she began work on the nearest doorway. It really wasn’t work at all, for you see the snow was soft and light, and Dani dearly loved to dig in it. In a few minutes she had made a wee hole through which she could peep up at jolly, round Mr. Sun. In a few minutes more she had made it big enough to put her head out. She looked this way and she looked that way. Far, far off on the top of a tree she could see old Roughleg the Hawk, but she was so far away that Dani didn’t fear her at all.</p>

<p class="q">“I don’t see anything or anybody to be afraid of,” said Dani and poked her head out a little farther.</p>

<p>Then she sat and studied everything around her a long, long time. It was a beautiful white world, a very beautiful white world. Everything was so white and pure and beautiful that it didn’t seem possible that harm or danger for anyone could even be thought of. But Dani Meadow Mouse learned long ago that things are not always what they seem, and so she sat with just her little head sticking out of her doorway and studied and studied. Just a little way off was a little heap of snow.</p>

<p class="q">“I don’t remember that,” said Dani. “And I don’t remember anything that would make that. There isn’t any little bush or old log or anything underneath it. Perhaps rough Brother North Wind heaped it up, just for fun.”</p>

<p>But all the time Dani Meadow Mouse kept studying and studying that little heap of snow. Pretty soon she saw rough Brother North Wind coming her way and tossing the snow about as he came. He caught a handful from the top of the little heap of snow that Dani was studying, and when he had passed, Dani’s sharp eyes saw something red there. It was just the color of the cloak old Granny Fox wears.</p>

<blockquote>
  <p class="q">
    “Granny Fox, you can’t fool me!<br>
    I see you plain as plain can be!”
  </p>
</blockquote>

<p>shouted Dani Meadow Mouse and dropped down out of sight, while old Granny Fox shook the snow from her red cloak and, with a snarl of disappointment and anger, slowly started for the Green Forest, where Reddy Fox was waiting for her.</p>

</section>

<section class="chapter-set">

<h2 id="ch9"><a href="#ch9"><span>IX</span> Dani Meadow Mouse Is Caught at Last</a></h2>

<blockquote>
  <p class="q">
    “Tippy-toppy-tippy-toe,<br>
    Play and frolic in the snow!<br>
    Now you see me! Now you don’t!<br>
    Think you’ll catch me, but you won’t!<br>
    Tippy-toppy-tippy-toe,<br>
    Oh, such fun to play in snow!”
  </p>
</blockquote>

<p>Dani Meadow Mouse sang this, or at least she tried to sing it, as she skipped about on the snow that covered the Green Meadows. But Dani Meadow Mouse has such a little voice, such a funny little squeaky voice, that had you been there you probably would never have guessed that she was singing. She thought she was, though, and was enjoying it just as much as if she had the most beautiful voice in the world. You know singing is nothing in the world but happiness in the heart making itself heard.</p>

<p>Oh, yes, Dani Meadow Mouse was happy! Why shouldn’t she have been? Hadn’t she proved herself smarter than old Granny Fox? That is something to make anyone happy. Some folks may fool Granny Fox once; some may fool her twice; but there are very few who can keep right on fooling her until she gives up in disgust. That is just what Dani Meadow Mouse had done, and she felt very smart and of course she felt very happy.</p>

<p>So Dani sang her little song and skipped about in the moonlight, and dodged in and out of her little round doorways, and all the time kept her sharp little eyes open for any sign of Granny Fox or Reddy Fox. But with all her smartness, Dani forgot. Yes, sir, Dani forgot one thing. She forgot to watch up in the sky. She knew that of course old Roughleg the Hawk was asleep, so she had nothing to fear from her. But she never once thought of Hooty the Owl.</p>

<p>Dear me, dear me! Forgetting is a dreadful habit. If nobody ever forgot, there wouldn’t be nearly so much trouble in the world. No, indeed, there wouldn’t be nearly so much trouble. And Dani Meadow Mouse forgot. She skipped and sang and was happy as could be, and never once thought to watch up in the sky.</p>

<p>Over in the Green Forest Hooty the Owl had had poor hunting, and he was feeling cross. You see, Hooty was hungry, and hunger is apt to make one feel cross. The longer he hunted, the hungrier and crosser he grew. Suddenly he thought of Dani Meadow Mouse.</p>

<p class="q">“I suppose she is asleep somewhere safe and snug under the snow,” grumbled Hooty, “but she might be, she just <em>might</em> be out for a frolic in the moonlight. I believe I’ll go down on the meadows and see.”</p>

<p>Now Hooty the Owl can fly without making the teeniest, weeniest sound. It seems as if he just drifts along through the air like a great shadow. Now he spread his great wings and floated out over the meadows. You know Hooty can see as well at night as most folks can by day, and it was not long before he saw Dani Meadow Mouse skipping about on the snow and dodging in and out of her little round doorways. Hooty’s great eyes grew brighter and fiercer. Without a sound he floated through the moonlight until he was just over Dani Meadow Mouse.</p>

<p>Too late Dani looked up. Her little song ended in a tiny squeak of fear, and she started for her nearest little round doorway. Hooty the Owl reached down with his long cruel claws and — Dani Meadow Mouse was caught at last!</p>

<h2 id="ch10"><a href="#ch10"><span>X</span> A Strange Ride and How It Ended</a></h2>

<aside class="illo">
  <figure>
    <img src="images/hooty.jpg" />
    <figcaption>Dani Meadow Mouse was caught at last!</figcaption>
  </figure>
</aside>

<p>Dani Meadow Mouse often had sat watching Skimmer the Swallow sailing around up in the blue, blue sky. She had watched Ol’ Mistah Buzzard go up, up, up, until he was nothing but a tiny speck, and Dani had wondered how it would seem to be way up above the Green Meadows and the Green Forest and look down. It had seemed to her that it must be very wonderful and beautiful. Sometimes she had wished that she had wings and could go up in the air and look down. And now here she was, she, Dani Meadow Mouse, actually doing that very thing!</p>

<p>But Dani could see nothing wonderful or beautiful now. No, indeed! Everything was terrible, for you see Dani Meadow Mouse wasn’t flying herself. She was being carried. Yes, sir, Dani Meadow Mouse was being carried through the air in the cruel claws of Hooty the Owl! And all because Dani had forgotten — forgotten to watch up in the sky for danger.</p>

<p>Poor, poor Dani Meadow Mouse! Hooty’s great cruel claws hurt her dreadfully! But it wasn’t the pain that was the worst. No, indeed! It wasn’t the pain! It was the thought of what would happen when Hooty reached his home in the Green Forest, for she knew that there Hooty would gobble her up, bones and all. As he flew, Hooty kept chuckling, and Dani Meadow Mouse knew just what those chuckles meant. They meant that Hooty was thinking of the good meal he was going to have.</p>

<p>Hanging there in Hooty’s great cruel claws, Dani looked down on the snow-covered Green Meadows she loved so well. They seemed a frightfully long way below her, though really they were not far at all, for Hooty was flying very low. But Dani Meadow Mouse had never in all her life been so high up before, and so it seemed to her that she was way, way up in the sky, and she shut her eyes so as not to see. But she couldn’t keep them shut. No, sir, she couldn’t keep them shut! She just <em>had</em> to keep opening them. There was the dear old Green Forest drawing nearer and nearer. It always had looked very beautiful to Dani Meadow Mouse, but now it looked terrible, very terrible indeed, because over in it, hidden away there in some dark place, was the home of Hooty the Owl.</p>

<p>Just ahead of her was the Old Briar-patch where Peter Rabbit lives so safely. Every old bramble in it was covered with snow and it was very, very beautiful. Really everything was just as beautiful as ever — the moonlight, the Green Forest, the snow-covered Green Meadows, the Old Briar-patch. The only change was in Dani Meadow Mouse herself, and it was all because she had forgotten.</p>

<p>Suddenly Dani began to wriggle and struggle. “Keep still!” snapped Hooty the Owl.</p>

<p>But Dani only struggled harder than ever. It seemed to her that Hooty wasn’t holding her as tightly as at first. She felt one of Hooty’s claws slip. It tore her coat and hurt dreadfully, but it slipped! The fact is, Hooty had only grabbed Dani Meadow Mouse by the loose part of her coat, and up in the air he couldn’t get hold of Dani any better. Dani kicked, squirmed, and twisted, and twisted, squirmed, and kicked. She felt her coat tear and of course the skin with it, but she kept right on, for now she was hanging almost free. Hooty had started down now, so as to get a better hold. Dani gave one more kick and then — she felt herself falling!</p>

<p>Dani Meadow Mouse shut her eyes and held her breath. Down, down, down she fell. It seemed to her that she never would strike the snow-covered meadows! Really she fell only a very little distance. But it seemed a terrible distance to Dani. She hit something that scratched her, and then plump! She landed in the soft snow right in the very middle of the Old Briar-patch, and the last thing she remembered was hearing the scream of disappointment and rage of Hooty the Owl.</p>

<h2 id="ch11"><a href="#ch11"><span>XI</span> Peter Rabbit Gets a Fright</a></h2>

<p>Peter Rabbit sat in his favorite place in the middle of the dear Old Briar-patch, trying to decide which way he would go on his travels that night. The night before he had had a narrow escape from old Granny Fox over in the Green Forest. There was nothing to eat around the Smiling Pool and no one to talk to there any more, and you know that Peter must either eat or ask questions in order to be perfectly happy. No, the Smiling Pool was too dull a place to interest Peter on such a beautiful moonlight night, and Peter had no mind to try his legs against those of old Granny Fox again in the Green Forest.</p>

<p>Early that morning, just after Peter had settled down for his morning nap, Charlotte Chickadee had dropped into the dear Old Briar-patch just to be neighborly. Peter was just dozing off when he heard the cheeriest little voice in the world. It was saying:</p>

<blockquote>
  <p class="q">
    “Dee-dee-chickadee!<br>
    I see you! Can you see me?”
  </p>
</blockquote>

<p>Peter began to smile even before he could get his eyes open and look up. There, right over her head, was Charlotte hanging head down from a nodding old bramble. In a twinkling she was down on the snow right in front of Peter, then up in the brambles again, right side up, upside down, here, there, everywhere, never still a minute, and all the time chattering away in the cheeriest little voice in the world.</p>

<blockquote>
  <p class="q">
    “Dee-dee-chickadee!<br>
    I’m as happy as can be!<br>
    Find it much the better way<br>
    To be happy all the day.<br>
    Dee-dee-chickadee!<br>
    Everybody’s good to me!"
  </p>
</blockquote>

<p class="q">“Hello, Charlotte!” said Peter Rabbit. “Where’d you come from?”</p>

<p class="q">“From Farmer Brown’s new orchard up on the hill. It’s a fine orchard, Peter Rabbit, a fine orchard. I go there every morning for my breakfast. If the winter lasts long enough, I’ll have all the trees cleaned up for Farmer Brown.”</p>

<p>Peter looked puzzled. “What do you mean?” he asked.</p>

<p class="q">“Just what I say,” replied Charlotte, almost turning a somersault in the air. “There’s a million eggs of insects on those young peach trees, but I’m clearing them all off as fast as I can. They’re mighty fine eating, Peter Rabbit, mighty fine eating!” And with that Charlotte had said good-by and flitted away.</p>

<p>Peter was thinking of that young orchard now, as he sat in the moonlight trying to make up his mind where to go. The thought of those young peach trees made his mouth water. It was a long way up to the orchard on the hill, a very long way, and Peter was wondering if it really was safe to go. He had just about made up his mind to
try it, for Peter is very, very fond of the bark of young peach trees, when <em>thump!</em> something dropped out of the sky at his very feet.</p>

<p>It startled Peter so that he nearly tumbled over backward. And right at the same instant came the fierce, angry scream of Hooty the Owl. That almost made Peter’s heart stop beating, although he knew that Hooty couldn’t get him down there in the Old Briar-patch. When Peter got his wits together and his heart didn’t go so jumpy, he looked to see what had dropped so close to him out of the sky. His big eyes grew bigger than ever, and he rubbed them to make quite sure that he really saw what he thought she saw. Yes, there was no doubt about it — there at his feet lay Dani Meadow Mouse!</p>


<h2 id="ch12"><a href="#ch12"><span>XII</span> The Old Briar-patch Has a New Tenant</a></h2>

<p>Dani Meadow Mouse slowly opened her eyes and then closed them again quickly, as if afraid to look around. She could hear someone talking. It was a pleasant voice, not at all like the terrible voice of Hooty the Owl, which was the very last thing that Dani Meadow Mouse could remember. Dani lay still a minute and listened.</p>

<p class="q">“Why, Dani Meadow Mouse, where in the world did you drop from?” asked the voice. It sounded like — why, very much like Peter Rabbit speaking. Dani opened her eyes again. It <em>was</em> Peter Rabbit.</p>

<p class="q">“Where — where am I?” asked Dani Meadow Mouse in a very weak and small voice.</p>

<p class="q">“In the middle of the dear Old Briar-patch with me," replied Peter Rabbit. “But how did you get here? You seemed to drop right out of the sky.”</p>

<p>Dani Meadow Mouse shuddered. Suddenly she remembered everything: how Hooty the Owl had caught her in great cruel claws and had carried her through the moonlight across the snow-covered Green Meadows; how she had felt Hooty’s claws slip and then had struggled and kicked and twisted and turned until her coat had torn and she had dropped down, down, down until she had landed in the soft snow and knocked all the breath out of her little body. The very last thing she could remember was Hooty’s fierce scream of rage and disappointment. Dani shuddered again.</p>

<p>Then a new thought came to her. She must get out of sight! Hooty might catch her again! Dani tried to scramble to her feet.</p>

<p class="q">“Ouch! Oh!” groaned Dani and lay still again.</p>

<p class="q">“There, there. Keep still, Dani Meadow Mouse. There’s nothing to be afraid of here,” said Peter Rabbit gently. His big eyes filled with tears as he looked at Dani Meadow Mouse, for Dani was all torn and hurt by the cruel claws of Hooty the Owl, and you know Peter has a very tender heart.</p>

<p>So Dani lay still, and while Peter Rabbit tried to make her comfortable and dress her hurts, she told Peter all about how she had forgotten to watch up in the sky and so had been caught by Hooty the Owl, and all about her terrible ride in Hooty’s cruel claws.</p>

<p class="q">“Oh, dear, whatever shall I do now?” she ended. “However shall I get back home to my warm house of grass, my safe little tunnels under the snow, and my little store of seeds in the snug hollow in the old fence-post?”</p>

<p>Peter Rabbit looked thoughtful. “You can’t do it,” said he. “You simply can’t do it. It is such a long way for a little fellow like you that it wouldn’t be safe to try. If you went at night, Hooty the Owl might catch you again. If you tried in daylight, old Roughleg the Hawk would be almost sure to see you. And night or day old Granny Fox or Reddy Fox might come snooping around, and if they did, they would be sure to catch you. I tell you what, you stay right here! The dear Old Briar-patch is the safest place in the world. Why, just think, here you can come out in broad daylight and laugh at Granny and Reddy Fox and at old Roughleg the Hawk, because the good old brambles will keep them out, if they try to get you. You can make just as good tunnels under the snow here as you had there, and there are lots and lots of seeds on the ground to eat. You know I don’t care for them myself. I’m lonesome sometimes, living here all alone. You stay here, and we’ll have the Old Briar-patch to ourselves.”</p>

<p>Dani Meadow Mouse looked at Peter gratefully. “I will, and thank you ever so much, Peter Rabbit,” she said.</p>

<p>And this is how the dear Old Briar-patch happened to have another tenant.</p>

</section>



<section class="chapter-set">

<h2 id="ch13"><a href="#ch13"><span>XIII</span> Peter Rabbit Visits the Peach Orchard</a></h2>

<aside class="illo">
  <figure>
    <img src="images/peter-trees.jpg" />
    <figcaption>Peter Rabbit hurried along through the moonlight.</figcaption>
  </figure>
</aside>


<p class="q">“Don’t go, Peter Rabbit! Don’t go!” begged Dani Meadow Mouse.</p>

<p>Peter hopped to the edge of the Old Briar-patch and looked over the moonlit, snow-covered meadows to the hill back of Farmer Brown’s house. On that hill was the young peach orchard of which Charlotte Chickadee had told him, and ever since Peter’s mouth had watered and watered every time she thought of those young peach trees and the tender bark on them.</p>

<p class="q">“I think I will, Dani, just this once,” said Peter. “It’s a long way, and I’ve never been there before; but I guess it’s just as safe as the Meadows or the Green Forest.</p>

<blockquote>
  <p class="q">
    “Oh I’m as bold as bold can be!<br>
    Sing hoppy-hippy-hippy-hop-o!<br>
    I’ll hie me forth the world to see!<br>
    Sing hoppy-hippy-hippy-hop-o!<br>
      My ears are long,<br>
      My legs are strong,<br>
      So now good day;<br>
      I’ll hie away!<br>
    Sing hoppy-hippy-hippy-hop-o!”
  </p>
</blockquote>

<p>And with that, Peter Rabbit left the dear safe Old Briar-patch, and away he went lipperty-lipperty-lip, across the Green Meadows towards the hill and the young orchard back of Farmer Brown’s house.</p>

<p>Dani Meadow Mouse watched him go and shook her head in disapproval. “Foolish, foolish, foolish!” she said over and over to herself. “Why can’t Peter be content with the good things that he has?”</p>

<p>Peter Rabbit hurried along through the moonlight, stopping every few minutes to sit up to look and listen. He heard the fierce hunting call of Hooty the Owl way over in the Green Forest, so he felt sure that at present there was nothing to fear from him. He knew that since their return to the Green Meadows and the Green Forest, Granny and Reddy Fox had kept away from Farmer Brown’s, so he did not worry about them.</p>

<p>All in good time Peter came to the young orchard. It was just as Charlotte Chickadee had told him. Peter hopped up to the nearest peach tree and nibbled the bark. My, how good it tasted! He went all around the tree, stripping off the bark. He stood up on his long hind legs and reached as high as he could. Then he dug the snow away and ate down as far as he could. When he could get no more tender young bark, he went on to the next tree.</p>

<p>Now though Peter didn’t know it, he was in the very worst kind of mischief. You see, when he took off all the bark all the way around the young peach tree he killed the tree, for you know it is on the inside of the bark that the sap which gives life to a tree and makes it grow goes up from the roots to all the branches. So when Peter ate the bark all the way around the trunk of the young tree, he had made it impossible for the sap to come up in the spring. Oh, it was the worst kind of mischief that Peter Rabbit was in.</p>

<p>But Peter didn’t know it, and he kept right on filling that big stomach of his and enjoying it so much that he forgot to watch out for danger. Suddenly, just as he had begun on another tree, a great roar right behind him made him jump almost out of his skin. He knew that voice, and without waiting to even look behind him, he started
for the stone wall on the other side of the orchard. Right at his heels, her great mouth wide open, was Bella the Hound.</p>


<h2 id="ch14"><a href="#ch14"><span>XIV</span> Farmer Brown Sets a Trap</a></h2>

<p>Peter Rabbit was in trouble. He had got into mischief and now, like everyone who gets into mischief, he wished that he hadn’t. The worst of it was that he was a long way from his home in the dear Old Briar-patch, and he didn’t know how he ever could get back there again. Where was he? Why, in the stone wall on one side of Farmer Brown’s young peach orchard. How Peter blessed the old stone wall in which he had found a safe hiding-place! Bella had hung around nearly all night, so that Peter had not dared to try to go home. Now it was daylight, and Peter knew it would not be safe to put his nose outside.</p>

<p>Peter was worried, so worried that he couldn’t go to sleep as he usually does in the daytime. So he sat hidden in the old wall and waited and watched. By and by he saw Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown’s girl come out into the orchard. Right away they saw the mischief which Peter had done, and he could tell by the sound of their voices that they were very, very angry. They went away, but before long they were back again, and all day long Peter watched them work putting something around each of the young peach-trees. Peter grew so curious that he forgot all about his troubles and how far away from home he was. He could hardly wait for night to come so that he
might see what they had been doing.</p>

<p>Just as jolly, round, red Mr. Sun started to go to bed behind the Purple Hills, Farmer Brown and his girl started back to the house. Farmer Brown was smiling now.</p>

<p class="q">“I guess that will fix him!” he said.</p>

<p class="q">“Now what does he mean by that?” thought Peter. “Whom will it fix? Can it be me? I don’t need any fixing.”</p>

<p>He waited just as long as he could. When all was still, and the moonlight had begun to make shadows of the trees on the snow, Peter very cautiously crept out of his hiding-place. Bella the Hound was nowhere in sight, and everything was as quiet and peaceful as it had been when he first came into the orchard the night before. Peter had fully made up his mind to go straight home as fast as his long legs would take him, but his dreadful curiosity insisted that first he must find out what Farmer Brown and his girl had been doing to the young peach trees.</p>

<p>So Peter hurried over to the nearest tree. All around the trunk of the tree, from the ground clear up higher than Peter could reach, was wrapped wire netting. Peter couldn’t get so much as a nibble of the delicious bark. He hadn’t intended to take any, for he had meant to go right straight home, but now that he couldn’t get any, he wanted some more than ever — just a bite. Peter looked around. Everything was quiet. He would try the next tree, and then he would go home.</p>

<p>But the next tree was wrapped with wire. Peter hesitated, looked around, turned to go home, thought of how good that bark had tasted the night before, hesitated again, and then hurried over to the third tree. It was protected just like the others. Then Peter forgot all about going home. He wanted some of that delicious bark, and he ran from one tree to another as fast as he could go.</p>

<p>At last, way down at the end of the orchard, Peter found a tree that had no wire around it. “They must have forgotten this one!” he thought, and his eyes sparkled. All around on the snow were a lot of little, shiny wires, but Peter didn’t notice them. All he saw was that delicious bark on the young peach tree. He hopped right into the middle of the wires, and then, just as he reached up to take the first bite of bark, he felt something tugging at one of his hind legs.</p>


<h2 id="ch15"><a href="#ch15"><span>XV</span> Peter Rabbit Is Caught in a Snare</a></h2>

<p>When Peter Rabbit, reaching up to nibble the bark of one of Farmer Brown’s young trees, felt something tugging at one of his hind legs, he was so startled that he jumped to get away. Instead of doing this, he fell flat on his face. The thing on his hind leg had tightened and held him fast. A great fear came to Peter Rabbit, and lying there in the snow, he kicked and struggled with all his might. But the more he kicked, the tighter grew that hateful thing on his leg! Finally he grew too tired to kick any more and lay still. The dreadful thing that held him hurt his leg, but it didn’t pull when he lay still.</p>

<p>When he had grown a little calmer, Peter sat up to examine the thing which held him so fast. It was something like one of the blackberry vines he had sometimes tripped over, only it was bright and shiny, and had no branches or tiny prickers, and one end was fastened to a stake. Peter tried to bite off the shiny thing, but even his great, sharp front teeth couldn’t cut it. Then Peter knew what it was. It was wire! It was a snare which Farmer Brown had set to catch him, and which he had walked right into because he had been so greedy for the bark of the young peach tree that he had not used his eyes to look out for danger.</p>

<p>Oh, how Peter Rabbit did wish that he had not been so curious to know what Farmer Brown had been doing that day, and that he had gone straight home as he had meant to do, instead of trying to get one more meal of young peach bark! Big tears rolled down Peter’s cheeks. What should he do? What <em>could</em> he do? For a long time Peter sat in the moonlight, trying to think of something to do. At last he thought of the stake to which that hateful wire was fastened. The stake was of wood, and Peter’s teeth would cut wood. Peter’s heart gave a great leap of hope, and he began at once to dig away the snow from around the stake, and then settled himself to gnaw the stake in two.</p>

<p>Peter had been hard at work on the stake a long time and had it a little more than half cut through, when he heard a loud sniff down at the other end of the orchard. He looked up to see — whom do you think? Why, Bella the Hound! She hadn’t seen Peter yet, but she had already found Peter’s tracks, and it would be but a few minutes before she found Peter himself.</p>

<p>Poor Peter Rabbit! There wasn’t time to finish cutting off the stake. What could he do? He made a frightened jump just as he had when he first felt the wire tugging at his leg. Just as before, he was thrown flat on his face. He scrambled to his feet and jumped again, only to be thrown just as before. Just then Bella the Hound saw him and opening her mouth sent forth a great roar. Peter made one more frantic jump. Snap! the stake had broken! Peter pitched forward on his head, turned a somersault, and scrambled to his feet. He was free at last! That is, he could run, but after him dragged a piece of the stake.</p>

<p>How Peter did run! It was hard work, for you know he had to drag that piece of stake after him. But he did it, and just in time he crawled into the old stone wall on one side of the orchard, while Bella the Hound barked her disappointment to the moon.</p>


<h2 id="ch16"><a href="#ch16"><span>XVI</span> Peter Rabbit’s Hard Journey</a></h2>

<p>Peter Rabbit sat in the old stone wall along one side of Farmer Brown’s orchard, waiting for Mrs. Moon to put out her light and leave the world in darkness until jolly, round, red Mr. Sun should kick off his rosy bedclothes and begin his daily climb up in the blue, blue sky. In the winter, Mr. Sun is a late sleeper, and Peter knew that there would be two or three hours after Mrs. Moon put out her light when it would be quite dark. And Peter also knew too that by this time Hooty the Owl would probably have caught his dinner. So would old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox. Bella the Hound would be too sleepy to be on the watch. It would be the very safest time for Peter to try to get to his home in the dear Old Briar-patch.</p>

<p>So Peter waited and waited. Twice Bella the Hound, who had chased him into the old wall, came over and barked at him and tried to get at him. But the old wall kept Peter safe, and Bella gave it up. And all the time Peter sat waiting he was in great pain. You see that shiny wire was drawn so tight that it cut into his flesh and hurt dreadfully, and to the other end of the wire was fastened a piece of wood, part of the stake to which the snare had been made fast and which Peter had managed to gnaw and break off.</p>

<p>It was on account of this that Peter was waiting for Mrs. Moon to put out her light. He knew that with that stake dragging after him he would have to go very slowly, and he could not run any more risk of danger than he actually had to. So he waited and waited, and by and by, sure enough, Mrs. Moon put out her light. Peter waited a little longer, listening with all his might. Everything was still. Then Peter crept out of the old stone wall.</p>

<p>Right away trouble began. The stake dragging at the end of the wire fast to his leg caught among the stones and pulled Peter up short. My, how it did hurt! It made the tears come. But Peter shut his teeth hard, and turning back, he worked until he got the stake free. Then he started on once more, dragging the stake after him.</p>

<p>Very slowly across the orchard and under the fence on the other side crept Peter Rabbit, his leg so stiff and sore that he could hardly touch it to the snow, and all the time dragging that piece of stake, which seemed to grow heavier and harder to drag every minute. Peter did not dare to go out across the open fields, for fear some danger might happen along, and he would have no place to hide. So he crept along close to the fences where bushes grow, and this made it very, very hard, for the dragging stake was forever catching in the bushes with a yank at the sore leg which brought Peter up short with a squeal of pain.</p>

<p>This was bad enough, but all the time Peter was filled with a dreadful fear that Hooty the Owl or Granny Fox might just happen along. He had to stop to rest very, very often, and then he would listen and listen. Over and over again he said to himself:</p>



<!-- stopped here -->


<p class="q">“Oh, dear, whatever did I go up to the young peach orchard for when
I knew I had no business there? Why couldn’t I have been content
with all the good things that were mine in the Green Forest and on
the Green Meadows? Oh, dear! Oh, dear!"

Just as jolly, round, red Mr. Sun began to light up the Green
Meadows, Peter Rabbit reached the dear Old Briar-patch. Dani Meadow
Mouse was sitting on the edge of it anxiously watching for him.
Peter crawled up and started to creep in along one of her little
private paths. she got in himself, but the dragging stake caught
among the brambles, and Peter just fell down in the snow right where
he was, too tired and worn out to move.

</section>


<section class="chapter-set">



<h2 id="ch1"><a href="#ch1"><span>I</span> Dani Meadow Mouse Is Worried</a></h2>


dani-helps-peter.jpg



CHAPTER XVII

_Dani Meadow Mouse Becomes Worried_


Dani Meadow Mouse limped around through the dear Old Briar-patch,
where she had lived with Peter Rabbit ever since she had squirmed out
of the claws of Hooty the Owl and dropped there, right at the feet
of Peter Rabbit. Dani limped because she was still lame and sore
from Hooty’s terrible claws, but she didn’t let himself think much
about that, because she was so thankful to be alive at all. So he
limped around in the Old Briar-patch, picking up seed which had
fallen on the snow, and sometimes pulling down a few of the red
berries which cling all winter to the wild rose bushes. The seeds in
these were very nice indeed, and Dani always felt especially good
after a meal of them.

Dani Meadow Mouse had grown very fond of Peter Rabbit, for Peter
had been very, very good to him. Dani felt that she never, never
could repay all of Peter’s kindness. It had been very good of Peter
to offer to share the Old Briar-patch with Dani, because Dani was
so far from her own home that it would not be safe for him to try to
get back there. But Peter had done more than that. she had taken care
of Dani, such good care, during the first few days after Dani’s
escape from Hooty the Owl. she had brought good things to eat while
Dani was too weak and sore to get things for himself. Oh, Peter had
been very good indeed to him!

But now, as Dani limped around, she was not happy. No, sir, she was
not happy. The truth is, Dani Meadow Mouse was worried. It was a
different kind of worry from any she had known before. You see, for
the first time in her life, Dani was worrying about someone else.
He was worrying about Peter Rabbit. Peter had been gone from the Old
Briar-patch a whole night and a whole day. she often was gone all
night, but never all day too. Dani was sure that something had
happened to Peter. she thought of how she had begged Peter not to go
up to Farmer Brown’s young peach orchard. she had felt in her bones
that it was not safe, that something dreadful would happen to Peter.
How Peter had laughed at him and bravely started off! Why hadn’t he
come home?

As she limped around, Dani talked to himself:

  “Why cannot people be content
  With all the good things that are sent,
  And mind their own affairs at home
  Instead of going forth to roam?"

It was now the second night since Peter Rabbit had gone away. Dani
Meadow Mouse couldn’t sleep at all. Round and round through the Old
Briar-patch she limped, and finally sat down at the edge of it to
wait and watch. At last, just as jolly, round, red Mr. Sun sent her
first long rays of light across the Green Meadows, Dani saw
something crawling towards the Old Briar-patch. she rubbed her eyes
and looked again. It was--no, it couldn’t be--yes, it _was_ Peter
Rabbit! But what was the matter with him? Always before Peter had
come home lipperty-lipperty-lipperty-lip, but now she was crawling,
actually _crawling_! Dani Meadow Mouse didn’t know what to make of
it.

Nearer and nearer came Peter. Something was following him. No, Peter
was dragging something after him. At last Peter started to crawl
along one of her little private paths into the Old Briar-patch. The
thing dragging behind caught in the brambles, and Peter fell
headlong in the snow, too tired and worn out to move. Then Dani saw
what the trouble was. A wire was fast to one of Peter’s long hind
legs, and to the other end of the wire was fastened part of a stake.
Peter had been caught in a snare! Dani hurried over to Peter and
tears stood in her eyes.

"Poor Peter Rabbit! Oh, I’m so sorry, Peter!" she wherpered.



<h2 id="ch1"><a href="#ch1"><span>I</span> Dani Meadow Mouse Is Worried</a></h2>




CHAPTER XVIII

_Dani Meadow Mouse Returns a Kindness_


There Peter Rabbit lay. she had dragged that piece of stake a long
way, a very long way, indeed. But now she could drag it no farther,
for it had caught in the bramble bushes. So Peter just dropped on
the snow and cried. Yes, sir, she cried! You see she was so tired and
worn out and frightened, and her leg was so stiff and sore and hurt
him so! And then it was so dreadful to actually get home and be
stopped right on your very own doorstep. So Peter just lay there and
cried. Just supposing old Granny Fox should come poking around and
find Peter caught that way! All she would have to do would be to get
hold of that hateful stake caught in the bramble bushes and pull
Peter out where she could get him. Do you wonder that Peter cried?

By and by she became aware that someone was wiping away her tears. It
was Dani Meadow Mouse. And Dani was singing in a funny little
voice. Pretty soon Peter stopped crying and listened, and this is
what she heard:

  “Isn’t any use to cry!
    Not a bit! Not a bit!
  Wipe your eyes and wipe ’em dry!
    Use your wit! Use your wit!
  Just remember that tomorrow
  Never brings a single sorrow.
  Yesterday has gone forever
  And tomorrow gets here never.
  Chase your worries all away;
  Nothing’s worse than just to-day."

Peter smiled in spite of himself.

"That’s right! That’s right! Smile away, Peter Rabbit. Smile away!
Your troubles, sir, are all to-day. And between you and me, I don’t
believe they are so bad as you think they are. Now you lie still
just where you are, while I go see what can be done."

With that off wherked Dani Meadow Mouse as spry as you please, in
spite of her lame leg, and in a few minutes Peter knew by little
twitches of the wire on her leg that Dani was doing something at
the other end. she was. Dani Meadow Mouse had set out to gnaw that
piece of stake all to splinters. So there she sat and gnawed and
gnawed and gnawed. Jolly, round, red Mr. Sun climbed higher and
higher in the sky, and Dani Meadow Mouse grew hungry, but still he
kept right on gnawing at that bothersome stake.

[Illustration: Dani gnawed the stake which held Peter.]

By and by, happening to look across the snow-covered Green Meadows,
he saw something that made her heart jump. It was Farmer Brown’s Girl
coming straight over towards the dear Old Briar-patch.

Dani didn’t say a word to Peter Rabbit, but gnawed faster than
ever.

Farmer Brown’s Girl was almost there when Dani stopped gnawing.
There was only a tiny bit of the stake left now, and Dani hurried
to tell Peter Rabbit that there was nothing to stop him now from
going to her most secret retreat in the very heart of the Old
Briar-patch. While Peter slowly dragged her way along, Dani trotted
behind to see that the wire did not catch on the bushes.

They had safely reached Peter Rabbit’s secretest retreat when Farmer
Brown’s boy came up to the edge of the dear Old Briar-patch.

"So this is where that rabbit that killed our peach tree lives!"
said he. “We’ll try a few snares and put you out of mischief."

And for the rest of the afternoon Farmer Brown’s Girl was very busy
around the edge of the Old Briar-patch.



<h2 id="ch1"><a href="#ch1"><span>I</span> Dani Meadow Mouse Is Worried</a></h2>




CHAPTER XIX

_Peter Rabbit and Dani Meadow Mouse Live High_


Peter Rabbit sat in her secretest place in the dear Old Briar-patch
with one of her long hind legs all swelled up and terribly sore
because of the fine wire fast around it and cutting into it. He
could hear Farmer Brown’s Girl going around on the edge of the dear
Old Briar-patch and stopping every little while to do something. In
spite of her pain, Peter was curious. Finally she called Dani Meadow
Mouse.

"Dani, you are small and can keep out of sight easier than I can.
Go as near as ever you dare to Farmer Brown’s Girl and find out what
he is doing," said Peter Rabbit.

So Dani Meadow Mouse crept out as near to Farmer Brown’s Girl as
ever she dared and studied and studied to make out what Farmer
Brown’s boy was doing. By and by she returned to Peter Rabbit.

"I don’t know what he’s doing, Peter, but he’s putting something in
every one of your private little paths leading into the Briar-patch
from the Green Meadows."

"Ha!" said Peter Rabbit.

"There are little loops of that strange stuff you’ve got hanging to
your leg, Peter," continued Dani Meadow Mouse.

"Just so!" said Peter Rabbit.

"And he’s put cabbage leaves and pieces of apple all around," said
Dani.

"We must be careful!" said Peter Rabbit.

Peter’s leg was in a very bad way, indeed, and Peter suffered a
great deal of pain. The worst of it was, she didn’t know how to get
off the wire that was cutting into it so. she had tried to cut the
wire with her big teeth, but she couldn’t do it. Dani Meadow Mouse
had tried and tried to gnaw the wire, but it wasn’t the least bit of
use. But Dani wasn’t easily discouraged, and she kept working and
working at it. Once she thought she felt it slip a little. she said
nothing, but kept right on working. Pretty soon she was sure that it
slipped. she went right on working harder than ever. By and by she had
it so loose that she slipped it right off of Peter’s leg, and Peter
didn’t know anything about it. You see, that cruel wire snare had
been so tight that Peter didn’t have any feeling except of pain left
in her leg, and so when Dani Meadow Mouse pulled the cruel wire
snare off, Peter didn’t know it until Dani held it up in front of
him.

My, how thankful Peter was, and how she did thank Dani Meadow Mouse!
But Dani said that it was nothing at all, just nothing at all, and
that she owed more than that to Peter Rabbit for being so good to him
and letting him live in the dear Old Briar-patch.

It was a long time before Peter could hop as she used to, but after
the first day she managed to get around. she found that Farmer Brown’s
boy had spread those miserable wire snares in every one of her
private little paths. But Peter knew what they were now. she showed
Dani Meadow Mouse how he, because she was so small, could safely run
about among the snares and steal all the cabbage leaves and apples
which Farmer Brown’s Girl had put there for bait.

Dani Meadow Mouse thought this great fun and a great joke on Farmer
Brown’s boy. So every day she stole the bait, and she and Peter Rabbit
lived high while Peter’s leg was getting well. And all the time
Farmer Brown’s Girl wondered why she couldn’t catch Peter Rabbit.



<h2 id="ch1"><a href="#ch1"><span>I</span> Dani Meadow Mouse Is Worried</a></h2>




CHAPTER XX

_Timid Dani Meadow Mouse_


Dani Meadow Mouse is timid. Everybody says so, and what everybody
says ought to be so. But just as anybody can make a mistake
sometimes, so can everybody. Still, in this case, it is quite likely
that everybody is right. Dani Meadow Mouse _is_ timid. Ask Peter
Rabbit. Ask Sammy Jay. Ask Striped Chipmunk. They will all tell you
the same thing. Sammy Jay might even tell you that Dani is afraid
of her own shadow, or that she tries to run away from her own tail.
Of course this isn’t true. Sammy Jay likes to say mean things. It
isn’t fair to Dani Meadow Mouse to believe what Sammy Jay says.

But the fact is Dani certainly is timid. More than ther, she isn’t
ashamed of it--not the least little bit.

"You see, it’s this way," said Dani, as she sat on her doorstep one
sunny morning talking to her friend, old Mrs. Toad. “If I weren’t
afraid, I wouldn’t be all the time watching out, and if I weren’t
all the time watching out, I wouldn’t have any more chance than that
foolish red ant running across in front of you."

Old Mrs. Toad looked where Dani was pointing, and her tongue darted
out and back again so quickly that Dani wasn’t sure that she saw it
at all, but when she looked for the ant it was nowhere to be seen,
and there was a satisfied twinkle in Mrs. Toad’s eyes. There was an
answering twinkle in Dani’s own eyes as she continued.

"No, sir," said he, “I wouldn’t stand a particle more chance than
that foolish ant did. Now if I were big and strong, like Old Man
Coyote, or had swift wings, like Skimmer the Swallow, or were so
homely and ugly-looking that no one wanted me, like--like--" Dani
hesitated and then finished rather lamely, “like some folks I know,
I suppose I wouldn’t be afraid."

Old Mrs. Toad looked up sharply when Dani mentioned homely and
ugly-looking people, but Dani was gazing far out across the Green
Meadows and looked so innocent that Mrs. Toad concluded that he
couldn’t have had him in mind.

"Well," said he, thoughtfully scratching her nose, “I suppose you
may be right, but for my part fear seems a very foolish thing. Now,
I don’t know what it is. I mind my own business, and no one ever
bothers me. I should think it would be a very uncomfortable
feeling."

"It is," replied Dani, “but, as I said before, it is a very good
thing to keep one on guard when there are as many watching for one
as there are for me. Now there’s Mr. Blacksnake and--"

"Where?" exclaimed old Mrs. Toad, turning as pale as a toad can turn,
and looking uneasily and anxiously in every direction.

Dani turned her head to hide a smile. If old Mrs. Toad wasn’t
showing fear, no one ever did. “Oh," said he, “I didn’t mean that he
is anywhere around here now. What I was going to say was that there
is Mr. Blacksnake and Granny Fox and Reddy Fox and Redtail the Hawk
and Hooty the Owl and others I might name, always watching for a
chance to make a dinner from poor little me. Do you wonder that I am
afraid most of the time?"

"No," replied old Mrs. Toad. “No, I don’t wonder that you are afraid.
It must be dreadful to feel hungry eyes are watching for you every
minute of the day and night, too."

"Oh, it’s not so bad," replied Dani. “It’s rather exciting.
Besides, it keeps my wits sharp all the time. I am afraid I should
find life very dull indeed if, like you, I feared nothing and
nobody. By the way, see how that grass is moving over there.
It looks as if Mr. Blacksnake--Why, Mrs. Toad, where are you going in
such a hurry?"

"I’ve just remembered an important engagement with my cousin,
Grandfather Frog, at the Smiling Pool," shouted old Mrs. Toad over
her shoulder, as she hurried so that she fell over her own feet.

Dani chuckled as she sat alone on her doorstep. “Oh, no, old Mr.
Toad doesn’t know what fear is!" said he. “Funny how some people
won’t admit what everybody can see for themselves. Now, I _am_
afraid, and I’m willing to say so."



<h2 id="ch1"><a href="#ch1"><span>I</span> Dani Meadow Mouse Is Worried</a></h2>




CHAPTER XXI

_An Exciting Day for Dani Meadow Mouse_


Dani Meadow Mouse started along one of her private little paths
very early one morning. she was on her way to get a supply of a
certain kind of grass seed of which she is very fond. she had been
thinking about that seed for some time and waiting for it to get
ripe. Now it was just right, as she had found out the day before by a
visit to the place where this particular grass grew. The only
trouble was it grew a long way from Dani’s home, and to reach it he
had to cross an open place where the grass was so short that he
couldn’t make a path under it.

"I feel it in my bones that this is going to be an exciting day,"
said Dani to himself as she trotted along. “I suppose that if I were
really wise, I would stay nearer home and do without that nice seed.
But nothing is really worth having unless it is worth working for,
and that seed will taste all the better if I have hard work getting
it."

So she trotted along her private little path, her ears wide open, and
her eyes wide open, and her little nose carefully testing every
Merry Little Breeze who happened along for any scent of danger which
it might carry. Most of all she depended upon her ears, for the grass
was so tall that she couldn’t see over it, even when she sat up. He
had gone only a little way when she thought she heard a quiet rustling
behind him. she stopped to listen. There it was again, and it
certainly was right in the path behind him! she didn’t need to be
told who was making it. There was only one who could make such a
sound as that--Mr. Blacksnake.

Now Dani can run very fast along her private little paths, but he
knew that Mr. Blacksnake could run faster. “If my legs can’t save
me, my wits must," thought Dani as she started to run as fast as
ever she could. “I must reach that fallen old hollow fence-post."

He was almost out of breath when she reached the post and scurried
into the open end. she knew by the sound of the rustling that Mr.
Blacksnake was right at her heels. Now the old post was hollow its
whole length, but halfway there was an old knot-hole just big enough
for Dani to squeeze through. Mr. Blacksnake didn’t know anything
about that hole; and because it was dark inside the old post, he
didn’t see Dani pop through it. Dani ran back along the top of the
log and was just in time to see the tip of Mr. Blacksnake’s tail
disappear inside. Then what do you think Dani did? Why, she followed
Mr. Blacksnake right into the old post, but in doing it she didn’t
make the least little bit of noise.

Mr. Blacksnake kept right on through the old post and out the other
end, for she was sure that that was the way Dani had gone. she kept
right on along the little path. Now Dani knew that she wouldn’t go
very far before she found out that she had been fooled, and of course
he would come back. So Dani waited only long enough to get her
breath and then ran back along the path to where another little path
branched off. For just a minute she paused.

"If Mr. Blacksnake follows me, she will be sure to think that of
course I have taken this other little path," thought Dani, “so I
won’t do it."

Then she ran harder than ever, until she came to a place where two
little paths branched off, one to the right and one to the left. He
took the latter and scampered on, sure that by this time Mr.
Blacksnake would be so badly fooled that she would give up the chase.
And Dani was right.

  “Brains are better far than speed
  As wise men long ago agreed,"

said Dani, as she trotted on her way for the grass seed she liked so
well. “I felt it in my bones that this would be an exciting day. I
wonder what next."



<h2 id="ch1"><a href="#ch1"><span>I</span> Dani Meadow Mouse Is Worried</a></h2>




CHAPTER XXII

_What Happened Next to Dani Meadow Mouse_


Dani is so used to narrow escapes that she doesn’t waste any time
thinking about them. she didn’t this time. “He who tries to look two
ways at once is pretty sure to see nothing," says Dani, and she knew
that if she thought too much about the things that had already
happened, she couldn’t keep a sharp watch for the things that might
happen.

Nothing more happened as she hurried along her private little path to
the edge of a great patch of grass so short that she couldn’t hide
under it. she had to cross ther, and all the way she would be in plain
sight of anyone who happened to be near. Very cautiously she peeped
out and looked this way and looked that way, not forgetting to look
up in the sky. she could see no one anywhere. Drawing a long breath,
Dani started across the open place as fast as her short legs could
take him.

Now all the time, Redtail the Hawk had been sitting in a tree some
distance away, sitting so still that she looked like a part of the
tree itself. That is why Dani hadn’t seen him. But Redtail saw
Dani the instant she started across the open place, for Redtail’s
eyes are very keen, and she can see a great distance. With a
satisfied chuckle, she spread her broad wings and started after
Dani.

Just about halfway to the safety of the long grass on the other
side, Dani gave a hurried look behind him, and her heart seemed to
jump right into her mouth, for there was Redtail with her cruel
claws already set to seize him! Dani gave a frightened squeak, for
he thought that surely this time she would be caught. But she didn’t
mean to give up without trying to escape. Three jumps ahead of him
was a queer-looking thing. she didn’t know what it was, but if there
was a hole in it she might yet fool Redtail.

One jump! Would she be able to reach it? Two jumps! There _was_ a
hole in it! Three jumps! With another frightened squeak, Dani dived
into the opening just in time. And what do you think she was in? Why,
an old tomato can Farmer Brown’s Girl had once used to carry bait in
when she went fishing at the Smiling Pool. she had dropped it there on
her way home.

Redtail screamed with rage and disappointment as she struck the old
can with her great claws. she had been sure, very sure of Dani
Meadow Mouse this time! she tried to pick the can up, but she couldn’t
get hold of it. It just rolled away from him every time, try as he
would. Finally, in disgust, she gave up and flew back to the tree
from which she had first seen Dani.

[Illustration: Redtail the Hawk screamed with rage as Dani escaped.]

Of course Dani had been terribly frightened when the can rolled,
and by the noise the claws of Redtail made when they struck her
queer hiding-place. But she wisely decided that the best thing he
could do was to stay there for a while. And it was very fortunate
that she did so, as she was very soon to find out.



<h2 id="ch1"><a href="#ch1"><span>I</span> Dani Meadow Mouse Is Worried</a></h2>




CHAPTER XXIII

_Reddy Fox Grows Curious_


Dani Meadow Mouse had sat perfectly still for a long time inside
the old tomato can in which she had found a refuge from Redtail the
Hawk. she didn’t dare so much as put her head out for a look around,
lest Redtail should be circling overhead ready to pounce on him.

"If I stay here long enough, he’ll get tired and go away, if he
hasn’t already," thought Dani. “Ther has been a pretty exciting
morning so far, and I find that I am a little tired. I may as well
take a nap while I am waiting to make sure that the way is clear."

With that Dani curled up in the old tomato can. But it wasn’t meant
that Dani should have that nap. she had closed her eyes, but her
ears were still open, and presently she heard soft footsteps drawing
near. her eyes flew open, and she forgot all about sleep, you may be
sure, for those footsteps sounded familiar. They sounded to Dani
very, very much like the footsteps of--whom do you think? Why, Reddy
Fox! Dani’s heart began to beat faster as she listened. Could it be?
He didn’t dare peep out. Presently a little whiff of scent blew into
the old tomato can. Then Dani knew--it _was_ Reddy Fox.

"Oh, dear! I hope she doesn’t find that I am in here!" thought Dani.
"I wonder what under the sun has brought him up here just now."

If the truth were to be known, it was curiosity that had brought
Reddy up there. Reddy had been hunting for her breakfast some
distance away on the Green Meadows when Redtail the Hawk had tried
so hard to catch Dani Meadow Mouse. Reddy’s sharp eyes had seen
Redtail the minute she left the tree in pursuit of Dani, and she had
known by the way Redtail flew that she saw something she wanted to
catch. she had watched Redtail swoop down and had heard her scream of
rage when she missed Dani because Dani had dodged into the old
tomato can. she had seen Redtail strike and strike again at something
on the ground, and finally fly off in disgust with empty claws.

"Now, I wonder what it was Redtail was after and why she didn’t get
it," thought Reddy. “He acts terribly put out and disappointed. I
believe I’ll go over there and find out."

Off she started at a smart trot towards the patch of short grass
where she had seen Redtail the Hawk striking at something on the
ground. As she drew near, she crept very softly until she reached the
very edge of the open patch. There she stopped and looked sharply all
over it. There was nothing to be seen but an old tomato can. Reddy
had seen it many times before.

"Now what under the sun could Redtail have been after here?" thought
Reddy. “The grass isn’t long enough for a grasshopper to hide in,
and yet Redtail didn’t get what she was after. It’s very queer. It
certainly is very strange."

He trotted out and began to run back and forth with her nose to the
ground, hoping that her nose would tell him what her eyes couldn’t.
Back and forth, back and forth she ran, and then suddenly she stopped.

"Ha!" exclaimed Reddy. she had found the scent left by Dani Meadow
Mouse when she ran across towards the old tomato can. Right up to the
old can Reddy’s nose led him. she hopped over the old can, but on the
other side she could find no scent of Dani Meadow Mouse. In a flash
he understood, and a gleam of satisfaction shone in her yellow eyes
as she turned back to the old can. she knew that Dani must be hiding
in there.

"I’ve got you this time!" she snarled, as she sniffed at the opening
in the end of the can.



<h2 id="ch1"><a href="#ch1"><span>I</span> Dani Meadow Mouse Is Worried</a></h2>




CHAPTER XXIV

_Reddy Fox Loses her Temper_


Reddy Fox had caught Dani Meadow Mouse, and yet she hadn’t caught
him. she had found Dani hiding in the old tomato can, and it didn’t
enter Reddy’s head that she couldn’t get Dani out when she wanted to.
He was in no hurry. she had had a pretty good breakfast of
grasshoppers, and so she thought she would torment Dani a while
before gobbling him up. she lay down so that she could peep in at the
open end of the old can and see Dani trying to make himself as
small as possible at the other end. Reddy grinned until she showed
all her long teeth. Reddy always is a bully, especially when her
victim is a great deal smaller and weaker than himself.

"I’ve got you this time, Mr. Smarty, haven’t I?" taunted Reddy.

Dani didn’t say anything.

"You think you’ve been very clever because you have fooled me two or
three times, don’t you? Well, this time I’ve got you where your
tricks won’t work," continued Reddy, “so what are you going to do
about it?"

Dani didn’t answer. The fact is, she was too frightened to answer.
Besides, she didn’t know what she could do. So she just kept still, but
her bright eyes never once left Reddy’s cruel face. For all her
fright, Dani was doing some hard thinking. she had been in tight
places before and had learned never to give up hope. Something might
happen to frighten Reddy away. Anyway, Reddy had to get him out of
that old can before she would admit that she was really caught.

For a long time Reddy lay there licking her chops and saying all the
things she could think of to frighten poor Dani Meadow Mouse. At
last she grew tired of this and made up her mind that it was time to
end it and Dani Meadow Mouse at the same time. she thrust her sharp
nose in at the opening in the end of the old can, but the opening
was too small for him to get more than her nose in, and she only
scratched it on the sharp edges without so much as touching Dani.

"I’ll pull you out," said Reddy and thrust in one black paw.

Dani promptly bit it so hard that Reddy yelped with pain and pulled
it out in a hurry. Presently she tried again with the other paw.
Dani bit this one harder still, and Reddy danced with pain and
anger. Then she lost her temper completely, a very foolish thing to
do, as it always is. she hit the old can, and away it rolled with
Dani Meadow Mouse inside. this seemed to make Reddy angrier than
ever. she sprang after it and hit it again. Then she batted it first
this way and then that way, growing angrier and angrier. And all the
time Dani Meadow Mouse managed to keep inside, although she got a
terrible shaking up.

Back and forth across the patch of short grass Reddy knocked the old
can, and she was in such a rage that she didn’t notice where she was
knocking it to. Finally she sent it spinning into the long grass on
the far side of the open patch, close to one of Dani’s private
little paths. Like a flash Dani was out and scurrying along the
little path. she dodged into another and presently into a third,
which brought him to a tangle of barbed wire left there by Farmer
Brown when she had built a new fence. Under this she was safe.

"Phew!" exclaimed Dani, breathing very hard. “That was the
narrowest escape yet! But I guess I’ll get that special grass seed I
started out for, after all."

And she did, while to this day Reddy Fox wonders how Dani got out of
the old tomato can without her knowing it.

And so you see what temper does
  For those who give it rein;
It cheats them of the very thing
  They seek so hard to gain.



- Manually smarten quotes in chapter titles and blockquotes
- Check for ’ther’, should be ’this’
</section>
